Department of Environmental Quality
Chapter 340
Division 244
OREGON FEDERAL HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANT PROGRAM
340-244-0010
General Provisions for Stationary Sources: Policy and Purpose

The Environmental Quality Commission finds that certain air contaminants for which there are no ambient air quality standards may cause or contribute to an identifiable and significant increase in mortality or to an increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness or to irreversible ecological damage, and are therefore considered to be hazardous air pollutants. It is the policy of the Commission that no person may cause, allow, or permit emissions into the ambient air of any hazardous substance in such quantity, concentration, or duration determined by the Commission to be injurious to public health or the environment. The purpose of this Division is to establish emissions limitations on sources of these air contaminants. In order to reduce the release of these hazardous air pollutants and protect public health and the environment, it is the intent of the Commission to adopt by rule within this Division the source category specific requirements that are promulgated by the EPA, and state standards to reduce the release of these hazardous air pollutants. Furthermore, it is hereby declared the policy of the Commission that the standards contained in this Division are considered minimum standards, and as technology advances, protection of public health and the environment warrants, more stringent standards may be adopted and applied.

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020 & 468A.310
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.025
History:
DEQ 10-2016, f. & cert. ef. 10-3-16
DEQ 4-2016(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 4-21-16 thru 10-17-16
DEQ 14-1999, f. & cert. ef. 10-14-99, Renumbered from 340-032-0100
DEQ 13-1993, f. & cert. ef. 9-24-93

340-244-0020
General Provisions for Stationary Sources: Delegation of Authority

Subject to the requirements in this division, LRAPA is designated by the EQC to implement and enforce, within its area of jurisdiction. The requirements and procedures contained in this division must be used by LRAPA unless LRAPA has adopted or adopts rules which are at least as strict as this division.

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468 & 468A
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.025
History:
DEQ 8-2015, f. & cert. ef. 4-17-15
DEQ 15-2008, f. & cert. ef 12-31-08
DEQ 14-1999, f. & cert. ef. 10-14-99, Renumbered from 340-032-0110
DEQ 18-1993, f. & cert. ef. 11-4-93
DEQ 13-1993, f. & cert. ef. 9-24-93

340-244-0030
General Provisions for Stationary Sources: Definitions

Except as provided in OAR 340-244-0220 and -0232, the definitions in OAR 340-200-0020, 340-218-0030 and this rule apply to this division. If the same term is defined in this rule and OAR 340-200-0020 or 340-218-0030, the definition in this rule applies to this division.

(1) "Affected source" is as defined in 40 C.F.R. 63.2.

(2) "Area Source" means any stationary source which has the potential to emit hazardous air pollutants but is not a major source of hazardous air pollutants.

(3) "C.F.R." means the July 1, 2020 edition Code of Federal Regulations unless otherwise identified.

(4) "Construct a major source" means to fabricate, erect, or install at any greenfield site a stationary source or group of stationary sources which is located within a contiguous area and under common control and which emits or has the potential to emit 10 tons per year of any HAPs or 25 tons per year of any combination of HAP, or to fabricate, erect, or install at any developed site a new process or production unit which in and of itself emits or has the potential to emit 10 tons per year of any HAP or 25 tons per year of any combination of HAP, unless the process or production unit satisfies criteria in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this definition:

(a) All HAP emitted by the process or production unit that would otherwise be controlled under the requirements of 40 C.F.R. Part 63, Subpart B will be controlled by emission control equipment which was previously installed at the same site as the process or production unit;

(b) DEQ has determined within a period of 5 years prior to the fabrication, erection, or installation of the process or production unit that the existing emission control equipment represented the best available control technology (BACT), lowest achievable emission rate (LAER) under 40 C.F.R. Part 51 or 52, toxics-best available control technology (T-BACT), or MACT based on State air toxic rules for the category of pollutants which includes those HAP to be emitted by the process or production unit; or DEQ determines that the control of HAP emissions provided by the existing equipment will be equivalent to that level of control currently achieved by other well-controlled similar sources (i.e., equivalent to the level of control that would be provided by a current BACT, LAER, T-BACT, or State air toxic rule MACT determination).

(c) DEQ determines that the percent control efficiency for emission of HAP from all sources to be controlled by the existing control equipment will be equivalent to the percent control efficiency provided by the control equipment prior to the inclusion of the new process or production unit;

(d) DEQ has provided notice and an opportunity for public comment concerning its determination that criteria in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this definition apply and concerning the continued adequacy of any prior LAER, BACT, T-BACT, or State air toxic rule MACT determination;

(e) If any commenter has asserted that a prior LAER, BACT, T-BACT, or State air toxic rule MACT determination is no longer adequate, DEQ has determined that the level of control required by that prior determination remains adequate; and

(f) Any emission limitations, work practice requirements, or other terms and conditions upon which the above determinations by DEQ are predicated will be construed by DEQ as applicable requirements under section 504(a) and either have been incorporated into any existing Title V permit for the affected facility or will be incorporated into such permit upon issuance.

(5) "Emissions Limitation" and "Emissions Standard" mean a requirement adopted by DEQ or Regional Agency, or proposed or promulgated by the Administrator of the EPA, which limits the quantity, rate, or concentration of emissions of air pollutants on a continuous basis, including any requirements which limit the level of opacity, prescribe equipment, set fuel specifications, or prescribe operation or maintenance procedures for a source to assure continuous emission reduction.

(6) "Equipment leaks" means leaks from pumps, compressors, pressure relief devices, sampling connection systems, open ended valves or lines, valves, connectors, agitators, accumulator vessels, and instrumentation systems in hazardous air pollutant service.

(7) "Existing Source" means any source, the construction of which commenced prior to proposal of an applicable standard under sections 112 or 129 of the FCAA.

(8) "Facility" means all or part of any public or private building, structure, installation, equipment, or vehicle or vessel, including but not limited to ships.

(9) "Gasoline" means any petroleum distillate or petroleum distillate/alcohol blend having a Reid vapor pressure of 27.6 kilopascals (4.0 psi) or greater, which is used as a fuel for internal combustion engines.

(10) "Hazardous Air Pollutant" (HAP) means an air pollutant listed by the EPA under section 112(b) of the FCAA or determined by the Commission to cause, or reasonably be anticipated to cause, adverse effects to human health or the environment.

(11) "Major Source" means any stationary source or group of stationary sources located within a contiguous area and under common control that emits or has the potential to emit considering controls, in the aggregate, 10 tons per year or more of any hazardous air pollutant or 25 tons per year or more of any combination of hazardous air pollutants. The EPA may establish a lesser quantity, or in the case of radionuclides different criteria, for a major source on the basis of the potency of the air pollutant, persistence, potential for bioaccumulation, other characteristics of the air pollutant, or other relevant factors.

(12) "Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT)" means an emission standard applicable to major sources of hazardous air pollutants that requires the maximum degree of reduction in emissions deemed achievable for either new or existing sources.

(13) "Motor vehicle" means any self-propelled vehicle designed for transporting persons or property on a street or highway.

(14) "Nonroad engine" means an internal combustion engine (including the fuel system) that is not used in a motor vehicle or a vehicle used solely for competition, or that is not subject to standards promulgated under section 7411 of this title or section 7521 of this title.

(15) "Nonroad vehicle" means a vehicle that is powered by a nonroad engine, and that is not a motor vehicle or a vehicle used solely for competition.

(16) "New Source" means a stationary source, the construction of which is commenced after proposal of a federal MACT or January 3, 1993 of this Division, whichever is earlier.

(17) "Potential to Emit" means the maximum capacity of a stationary source to emit any air pollutant under its physical and operational design. Any physical or operational limitation on the capacity of a source to emit an air pollutant, including air pollution control equipment and restrictions on hours of operation or on the type or amount of material combusted, stored, or processed, must be treated as part of its design if the limitation is enforceable by the EPA. This section does not alter or affect the use of this section for any other purposes under the Act, or the term "capacity factor" as used in Title IV of the Act or the regulations promulgated thereunder. Secondary emissions shall not be considered in determining the potential to emit of a source.

(18) "Reconstruct a Major Source" means the replacement of components at an existing process or production unit that in and of itself emits or has the potential to emit 10 tons per year of any HAP or 25 tons per year of any combination of HAP, whenever: the fixed capital cost of the new components exceeds 50 percent of the fixed capital cost that would be required to construct a comparable process or production unit; and; it is technically and economically feasible for the reconstructed major source to meet the applicable maximum achievable control technology emission limitation for new sources established under 40 C.F.R. Part 63 Subpart B.

(19) "Regulated Air Pollutant" as used in this Division means:

(a) Any pollutant listed under OAR 340-244-0040; or

(b) Any pollutant that is subject to a standard promulgated under Section 129 of the Act.

(20) "Section 112(n)" means that subsection of the FCAA that includes requirements for the EPA to conduct studies on the hazards to public health prior to developing emissions standards for specified categories of hazardous air pollutant emission sources.

(21) "Section 112(r)" means that subsection of the FCAA that includes requirements for the EPA promulgate regulations for the prevention, detection and correction of accidental releases.

(22) "Solid Waste Incineration Unit" as used in this Division has the same meaning as given in Section 129(g) of the FCAA.

(23) "Stationary Source", as used in OAR 340 division 244, means any building, structure, facility, or installation which emits or may emit any regulated air pollutant;

[Publications: Publications referenced are available from DEQ.]

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020 & 468A.025
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.040
History:
DEQ 4-2024, amend filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024
DEQ 5-2022, amend filed 04/07/2022, effective 04/07/2022
DEQ 1-2021, amend filed 01/21/2021, effective 01/21/2021
DEQ 18-2019, amend filed 07/19/2019, effective 07/19/2019
DEQ 6-2017, f. & cert. ef. 7-13-17
DEQ 8-2015, f. & cert. ef. 4-17-15
DEQ 4-2013, f. & cert. ef. 3-27-13
DEQ 1-2011, f. & cert. ef. 2-24-11
DEQ 8-2009, f. & cert. ef. 12-16-09
DEQ 15-2008, f. & cert. ef 12-31-08
DEQ 13-2006, f. & cert. ef. 12-22-06
DEQ 2-2006, f. & cert. ef. 3-14-06
DEQ 2-2005, f. & cert. ef. 2-10-05
DEQ 14-1999, f. & cert. ef. 10-14-99, Renumbered from 340-032-0120
DEQ 18-1998, f. & cert. ef. 10-5-98
DEQ 20-1997, f. & cert. ef. 9-25-97
DEQ 26-1996, f. & cert. ef. 11-26-96
DEQ 22-1995, f. & cert. ef. 10-6-95
DEQ 24-1994, f. & cert. ef. 10-28-94
DEQ 18-1993, f. & cert. ef. 11-4-93
DEQ 13-1993, f. & cert. ef. 9-24-93

340-244-0040
General Provisions for Stationary Sources: List of Hazardous Air Pollutants

For purposes of this division the EQC adopts by reference the pollutants, including groups of substances and mixtures, listed in section 112(b), as Hazardous Air Pollutants (Table 1).

[ED. NOTE: To view attachments referenced in rule text, click here to view rule.]

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020 & 468A.025
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.025
History:
DEQ 4-2023, minor correction filed 03/01/2023, effective 03/01/2023
DEQ 19-2022, amend filed 11/18/2022, effective 03/01/2023
DEQ 13-2019, amend filed 05/16/2019, effective 05/16/2019
DEQ 7-2015, f. & cert. ef. 4-16-15
DEQ 13-2006, f. & cert. ef. 12-22-06
DEQ 2-2006, f. & cert. ef. 3-14-06
DEQ 2-2005, f. & cert. ef. 2-10-05
DEQ 14-1999, f. & cert. ef. 10-14-99, Renumbered from 340-032-0130
DEQ 20-1997, f. & cert. ef. 9-25-97
DEQ 2-1996, f. & cert. ef. 1-2-96
DEQ 13-1993, f. & cert. ef. 9-24-93

340-244-0050
General Provisions for Stationary Sources: Amending the List of Hazardous Air Pollutants

(1) Any person may file a petition with the Department to amend the HAP List. The petition must include at least the following information:

(a) Name and chemical abstract service number of the substance;

(b) Quantity of the substance used and released in Oregon;

(c) Sources or source categories emitting the substance;

(d) Potential adverse effects of the substance on public health and the environment;

(e) Potential exposure pathways; and

(f) Uncertainties in the data provided.

(2) The Department shall present this information, or other information that the Department may develop, to the Commission which will consider it along with the best available scientific information developed by the EPA, the Oregon Health Division, other states, other scientific organizations, or by any person.

(3) The Commission shall amend the HAP list if:

(a) It finds there is a scientifically defensible need to add a substance not on the EPA list to protect the public health or environment;

(b) A chemical is added to the list by the EPA;

(c) A substance is deleted from the list by the EPA and the Commission finds that the substance can be deleted without causing harm to public health or the environment; or

(d) A substance has previously been added to the list by the Commission but not by the EPA, and the Commission finds that the substance can be deleted without causing harm to public health or the environment.

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020 & 468A.310
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.025
History:
DEQ 14-1999, f. & cert. ef. 10-14-99, Renumbered from 340-032-0140
DEQ 13-1993, f. & cert. ef. 9-24-93

340-244-0100
Compliance Extensions for Early Reductions: Applicability

The requirements of 40 C.F.R. Part 63, Subpart D apply to an owner or operator of an existing source who wishes to obtain a compliance extension and an alternative emission limit from a standard issued under Section 112(d) of the FCAA. Any owner or operator of a facility who elects to comply with a compliance extension and alternative emission limit issued under this section must complete a permit application as prescribed in 40 C.F.R. 63.77.

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020 & 468A.310
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.310
History:
DEQ 4-2024, amend filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024
DEQ 15-2008, f. & cert. ef 12-31-08
DEQ 14-1999, f. & cert. ef. 10-14-99, Renumbered from 340-032-0300
DEQ 13-1993, f. & cert. ef. 9-24-93

340-244-0200
Compliance Extensions for Early Reductions: Emissions Limitation for New and Reconstructed Major Sources

(1) Federal MACT. Any person who proposes to construct a major source of HAP after an applicable emissions standard has been proposed by the EPA pursuant to Section 112(d), Section 112(n), or Section 129 of the FCAA must comply with the requirements and emission standard for new sources when promulgated by EPA.

(2) State MACT. Any person who proposes to construct or reconstruct a major source of hazardous air pollutants before MACT requirements applicable to that source have been proposed by the EPA and after the effective date of the program must comply with new and reconstructed source MACT requirements of 40 C.F.R. Part 63, Subpart B.

(3) Compliance schedule. The owner or operator of a new or reconstructed source must on and after the date of start-up, be in compliance with all applicable requirements specified in the Federal or State MACT.

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020 & 468A.025
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.040
History:
DEQ 4-2024, amend filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024
DEQ 4-2003, f. & cert. ef. 2-06-03
DEQ 14-1999, f. & cert. ef. 10-14-99, Renumbered from 340-032-0500
DEQ 20-1997, f. & cert. ef. 9-25-97
DEQ 22-1995, f. & cert. ef. 10-6-95
DEQ 13-1993, f. & cert. ef. 9-24-93

340-244-0210
Emission Standards: Emissions Limitation for Existing Sources

(1) Federal MACT. Existing major and area sources must comply with the applicable emissions standards for existing sources promulgated by the EPA pursuant to section 112(d), section 112(n), or section 129 of the FCAA and adopted by rule within this Division.

(2) State MACT. If the EPA fails to meet its schedule for promulgating a MACT standard for a source category or subcategory, DEQ must approve HAP emissions limitations for existing major sources within that category or subcategory according to 40 C.F.R. Part 63, Subpart B.

(a) The owner or operator of each existing major source within that category will file permit applications in accordance with OAR 340-218-0040 and 40 C.F.R. Part 63, Subpart B.

(b) If, after a permit has been issued, the EPA promulgates a MACT standard applicable to a source that is more stringent than the one established pursuant to this section, DEQ must revise the permit upon the next renewal to reflect the standard promulgated by the EPA. The source will be given a reasonable time to comply, but no longer than 8 years after the standard is promulgated;

(c) DEQ will not establish a case-by-case State MACT:

(A) For existing solid waste incineration units where an emissions standard will be established for these units by the EPA pursuant to section 111 of the FCAA. These sources are subject to applicable emissions standards under OAR chapter 340, division 230; or

(B) For existing major HAP sources where an emissions standard or alternative control strategy will be established by the EPA pursuant to section 112(n) of the FCAA.

(3) Compliance schedule:

(a) The owner or operator of the source must comply with the emission limitation:

(A) Within the time frame established in the applicable Federal MACT standard, but in no case later than three years from the date of federal promulgation of the applicable MACT requirements; or

(B) Within the time frame established by DEQ where a state-determined MACT has been established or a case-by-case determination has been made.

(b) Notwithstanding the requirements of this section, no existing source that has installed Best Available Control Technology or has been required to meet Lowest Achievable Emission Rate before the promulgation of a federal MACT applicable to that emissions unit is required to comply with such MACT standard until 5 years after the date on which such installation or reduction has been achieved, as determined by DEQ.

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468 & 468A
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.310
History:
DEQ 4-2024, amend filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024
DEQ 4-2013, f. & cert. ef. 3-27-13
DEQ 15-2008, f. & cert. ef 12-31-08
DEQ 2-2005, f. & cert. ef. 2-10-05
DEQ 4-2003, f. & cert. ef. 2-06-03
DEQ 14-1999, f. & cert. ef. 10-14-99, Renumbered from 340-032-0505
DEQ 18-1998, f. & cert. ef. 10-5-98, Renumbered from 340-032-2500
DEQ 7-1998, f. & cert. ef. 5-5-98
DEQ 13-1993, f. & cert. ef. 9-24-93

340-244-0220
Emission Standards: Federal Regulations Adopted by Reference

(1) Except as provided in sections (2) and (3) of this rule, 40 C.F.R. Part 61, Subparts A, C through F, J, L, N through P, V, Y, BB, and FF and 40 C.F.R. Part 63, Subparts A, F through J, L through O, Q through U, W through Y, AA through EE, GG through YY, CCC through EEE, GGG through JJJ, LLL through RRR, TTT through VVV, XXX, AAAA, CCCC through KKKK, MMMM through YYYY, AAAAA through NNNNN, PPPPP through UUUUU, WWWWW, YYYYY, ZZZZZ, BBBBBB, DDDDDD through HHHHHH, LLLLLL through TTTTTT, VVVVVV through EEEEEEE, and HHHHHHH are adopted by reference and incorporated herein, and 40 C.F.R. Part 63, Subparts ZZZZ and JJJJJJ are by this reference adopted and incorporated herein only for sources required to have a Title V or ACDP permit.

(2) The definitions in OAR 340-200-0020 and 340-244-0030 do not apply to the Subparts of 40 C.F.R. Parts 61 and 63 incorporated by reference in this rule, except for the definition of ‘C.F.R.’ in OAR 340-244-0030. Where "Administrator" or "EPA" appears in 40 C.F.R. Part 61 or 63, "DEQ" is substituted, except in any section of 40 C.F.R. Part 61 or 63, for which a federal rule or delegation specifically indicates that authority will not be delegated to the state.

(3) 40 C.F.R. Part 63 Subpart M — Dry Cleaning Facilities using Perchloroethylene: The exemptions in 40 C.F.R. 63.320(d) and (e) do not apply.

(4) 40 C.F.R. Part 61 Subparts adopted by this rule are titled as follows:

(a) Subpart A — General Provisions;

(b) Subpart C — Beryllium;

(c) Subpart D — Beryllium Rocket Motor Firing;

(d) Subpart E — Mercury;

(e) Subpart F — Vinyl Chloride;

(f) Subpart J — Equipment Leaks (Fugitive Emission Sources) of Benzene;

(g) Subpart L — Benzene Emissions from Coke By-Product Recovery Plants;

(h) Subpart N — Inorganic Arsenic Emissions from Glass Manufacturing Plants;

(i) Subpart O — Inorganic Arsenic Emissions from Primary Copper Smelters;

(j) Subpart P — Inorganic Arsenic Emissions from Arsenic Trioxide and Metal Arsenic Facilities;

(k) Subpart V — Equipment Leaks (Fugitive Emission Sources);

(l) Subpart Y — Benzene Emissions from Benzene Storage Vessels;

(m) Subpart BB — Benzene Emissions from Benzene Transfer Operations; and

(n) Subpart FF — Benzene Waste Operations.

(5) 40 C.F.R. Part 63 Subparts adopted by this rule are titled as follows:

(a) Subpart A — General Provisions;

(b) Subpart F — SOCMI;

(c) Subpart G — SOCMI — Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater;

(d) Subpart H — SOCMI — Equipment Leaks;

(e) Subpart I — Certain Processes Subject to the Negotiated Regulation for Equipment Leaks;

(f) Subpart J — Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production;

(g) Subpart L — Coke Oven Batteries;

(h) Subpart M — Perchloroethylene Air Emission Standards for Dry Cleaning Facilities;

(i) Subpart N — Chromium Emissions from Hard and Decorative Chromium Electroplating and Chromium Anodizing Tanks;

(j) Subpart O — Ethylene Oxide Emissions Standards for Sterilization Facilities;

(k) Subpart Q — Industrial Process Cooling Towers;

(l) Subpart R — Gasoline Distribution (Bulk Gasoline Terminals and Pipeline Breakout Stations);

(m) Subpart S — Pulp and Paper Industry;

(n) Subpart T — Halogenated Solvent Cleaning;

(o) Subpart U — Group I Polymers and Resins;

(p) Subpart W — Epoxy Resins and Non-Nylon Polyamides Production;

(q) Subpart X — Secondary Lead Smelting;

(r) Subpart Y — Marine Tank Vessel Loading Operations;

(s) Subpart AA — Phosphoric Acid Manufacturing Plants;

(t) Subpart BB — Phosphate Fertilizer Production Plants;

(u) Subpart CC — Petroleum Refineries;

(v) Subpart DD — Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations;

(w) Subpart EE — Magnetic Tape Manufacturing Operations;

(x) Subpart GG — Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities;

(y) Subpart HH — Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities;

(z) Subpart II — Shipbuilding and Ship Repair (Surface Coating);

(aa) Subpart JJ — Wood Furniture Manufacturing Operations;

(bb) Subpart KK — Printing and Publishing Industry;

(cc) Subpart LL — Primary Aluminum Reduction Plants;

(dd) Subpart MM — Chemical Recovery Combustion Sources at Kraft, Soda, Sulfite and Stand-Alone Semi-Chemical Pulp Mills;

(ee) Subpart NN — Area Sources: Wool Fiberglass Manufacturing;

(ff) Subpart OO — Tanks — Level 1;

(gg) Subpart PP — Containers;

(hh) Subpart QQ — Surface Impoundments;

(ii) Subpart RR — Individual Drain Systems;

(jj) Subpart SS — Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process;

(kk) Subpart TT — Equipment Leaks — Control Level 1;

(ll) Subpart UU — Equipment Leaks — Control Level 2;

(mm) Subpart VV — Oil-Water Separators and Organic-Water Separators;

(nn) Subpart WW — Storage Vessels (Tanks) — Control Level 2;

(oo) Subpart XX — Ethylene Manufacturing Process Units: Heat Exchange Systems and Waste Operations;

(pp) Subpart YY — Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards;

(qq) Subpart CCC — Steel Pickling — HCl Process Facilities and Hydrochloric Acid Regeneration Plants;

(rr) Subpart DDD — Mineral Wool Production;

(ss) Subpart EEE — Hazardous Waste Combustors;

(tt) Subpart GGG — Pharmaceuticals Production;

(uu) Subpart HHH — Natural Gas Transmission and Storage Facilities;

(vv) Subpart III — Flexible Polyurethane Foam Production;

(ww) Subpart JJJ — Group IV Polymers and Resins;

(xx) Subpart LLL — Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry;

(yy) Subpart MMM — Pesticide Active Ingredient Production;

(zz) Subpart NNN — Wool Fiberglass Manufacturing;

(aaa) Subpart OOO — Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins. The standards adopted by reference replaces the language of §63.1405(b)(2)(i) with: The owner or operator of a back-end continuous process vent shall reduce total organic HAP emissions to less than or equal to 0.95 kilograms of total organic HAP per megagram of resin produced (1.9 pounds of total organic HAP per ton of resin produced);

(bbb) Subpart PPP — Polyether Polyols Production;

(ccc) Subpart QQQ — Primary Copper Smelting;

(ddd) Subpart RRR — Secondary Aluminum Production;

(eee) Subpart TTT — Primary Lead Smelting;

(fff) Subpart UUU — Petroleum Refineries — Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units;

(ggg) Subpart VVV — Publicly Owned Treatment Works;

(hhh) Subpart XXX — Ferroalloys Production: Ferromanganese and Silicomanganese;

(iii) Subpart AAAA — Municipal Solid Waste Landfills;

(jjj) Subpart CCCC — Manufacturing of Nutritional Yeast;

(kkk) Subpart DDDD — Plywood and Composite Wood Products. Standards adopted include final rule promulgations through August 13, 2020 of the C.F.R.;

(lll) Subpart EEEE — Organic Liquids Distribution (non-gasoline);

(mmm) Subpart FFFF — Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing;

(nnn) Subpart GGGG — Solvent Extraction for Vegetable Oil Production;

(ooo) Subpart HHHH — Wet Formed Fiberglass Mat Production;

(ppp) Subpart IIII — Surface Coating of Automobiles and Light-Duty Trucks;

(qqq) Subpart JJJJ — Paper and Other Web Coating;

(rrr) Subpart KKKK — Surface Coating of Metal Cans;

(sss) Subpart MMMM — Surface Coating of Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products;

(ttt) Subpart NNNN — Surface Coating of Large Appliances;

(uuu) Subpart OOOO — Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles;

(vvv) Subpart PPPP — Surface Coating of Plastic Parts and Products;

(www) Subpart QQQQ — Surface Coating of Wood Building Products;

(xxx) Subpart RRRR — Surface Coating of Metal Furniture;

(yyy) Subpart SSSS — Surface Coating of Metal Coil;

(zzz) Subpart TTTT — Leather Finishing Operations;

(aaaa) Subpart UUUU — Cellulose Production Manufacturing;

(bbbb) Subpart VVVV — Boat Manufacturing;

(cccc) Subpart WWWW — Reinforced Plastics Composites Production;

(dddd) Subpart XXXX — Rubber Tire Manufacturing;

(eeee) Subpart YYYY — Stationary Combustion Turbines;

(ffff) Subpart ZZZZ — Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines (adopted only for sources required to have a Title V or ACDP permit);

(gggg) Subpart AAAAA — Lime Manufacturing;

(hhhh) Subpart BBBBB — Semiconductor Manufacturing;

(iiii) Subpart CCCCC — Coke Ovens: Pushing, Quenching & Battery Stacks;

(jjjj) Subpart DDDDD – Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters;

(kkkk) Subpart EEEEE — Iron and Steel Foundries;

(llll) Subpart FFFFF — Integrated Iron and Steel Manufacturing Facilities;

(mmmm) Subpart GGGGG — Site Remediation;

(nnnn) Subpart HHHHH — Misc. Coating Manufacturing;

(oooo) Subpart IIIII — Mercury Cell Chlor-Alkali Plants;

(pppp) Subpart JJJJJ — Brick and Structural Clay Products Manufacturing;

(qqqq) Subpart KKKKK — Clay Ceramics Manufacturing;

(rrrr) Subpart LLLLL — Asphalt Processing & Asphalt Roofing Manufacturing;

(ssss) Subpart MMMMM — Flexible Polyurethane Foam Fabrication Operations;

(tttt) Subpart NNNNN — Hydrochloric Acid Production;

(uuuu) Subpart PPPPP — Engine Tests Cells/Stands;

(vvvv) Subpart QQQQQ — Friction Materials Manufacturing Facilities;

(wwww) Subpart RRRRR — Taconite Iron Ore Processing;

(xxxx) Subpart SSSSS — Refractory Products Manufacturing;

(yyyy) Subpart TTTTT — Primary Magnesium Refining;

(zzzz) Subpart UUUUU — Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units. Standards adopted include final rule promulgations through July 1, 2018 of the C.F.R.;

(aaaaa) Subpart WWWWW — Area Sources: Hospital Ethylene Oxide Sterilization;

(bbbbb) Subpart YYYYY — Area Sources: Electric Arc Furnace Steelmaking Facilities;

(ccccc) Subpart ZZZZZ — Area Sources: Iron and Steel Foundries;

(ddddd) Subpart BBBBBB — Area Sources: Gasoline Distribution Bulk Terminals, Bulk Plants, and Pipeline Facilities;

(eeeee) Subpart DDDDDD — Area Sources: Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production;

(fffff) Subpart EEEEEE — Area Sources: Primary Copper Smelting;

(ggggg) Subpart FFFFFF — Area Sources: Secondary Copper Smelting;

(hhhhh) Subpart GGGGGG — Area Sources: Primary Nonferrous Metals — Zinc, Cadmium, and Beryllium;

(iiiii) Subpart HHHHHH — Area Sources: Paint Stripping and Miscellaneous Surface Coating Operations;

(jjjjj) Subpart JJJJJJ — Area Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers (adopted only for sources required to have a Title V or ACDP permit);

(kkkkk) Subpart LLLLLL — Area Sources: Acrylic and Modacrylic Fibers Production;

(lllll) Subpart MMMMMM — Area Sources: Carbon Black Production;

(mmmmm) Subpart NNNNNN — Area Sources: Chemical Manufacturing: Chromium Compounds;

(nnnnn) Subpart OOOOOO — Area Sources: Flexible Polyurethane Foam Production;

(ooooo) Subpart PPPPPP — Area Sources: Lead Acid Battery Manufacturing;

(ppppp) Subpart QQQQQQ — Area Sources: Wood Preserving;

(qqqqq) Subpart RRRRRR — Area Sources: Clay Ceramics Manufacturing;

(rrrrr) Subpart SSSSSS — Area Sources: Glass Manufacturing;

(sssss) Subpart TTTTTT — Area Sources: Secondary Nonferrous Metals Processing;

(ttttt) Subpart VVVVVV – Area Sources: Chemical Manufacturing;

(uuuuu) Subpart WWWWWW — Area Source: Plating and Polishing Operations;

(vvvvv) Subpart XXXXXX — Area Source: Nine Metal Fabrication and Finishing Source Categories;

(wwwww) Subpart YYYYYY — Area Sources: Ferroalloys Production Facilities;

(xxxxx) Subpart ZZZZZZ — Area Sources: Aluminum, Copper, and Other Nonferrous Foundries;

(yyyyy) Subpart AAAAAAA – Area Sources: Asphalt Processing and Asphalt Roofing Manufacturing;

(zzzzz) Subpart BBBBBBB — Area Sources: Chemical Preparations Industry;

(aaaaaa) Subpart CCCCCCC — Area Sources: Paints and Allied Products Manufacturing;

(bbbbbb) Subpart DDDDDDD — Area Sources: Prepared Feeds Manufacturing;

(cccccc) Subpart EEEEEEE — Area Sources: Gold Mine Ore Processing and Production;

(dddddd) Subpart HHHHHHH — Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production.

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.025
History:
DEQ 5-2022, amend filed 04/07/2022, effective 04/07/2022
DEQ 1-2021, amend filed 01/21/2021, effective 01/21/2021
DEQ 18-2019, amend filed 07/19/2019, effective 07/19/2019
DEQ 6-2017, f. & cert. ef. 7-13-17
DEQ 8-2015, f. & cert. ef. 4-17-15
DEQ 4-2013, f. & cert. ef. 3-27-13
DEQ 1-2011, f. & cert. ef. 2-24-11
DEQ 8-2009, f. & cert. ef. 12-16-09
DEQ 15-2008, f. & cert. ef 12-31-08
DEQ 2-2006, f. & cert. ef. 3-14-06
DEQ 2-2005, f. & cert. ef. 2-10-05
DEQ 4-2003, f. & cert. ef. 2-06-03
DEQ 15-2001, f. & cert. ef. 12-26-01
DEQ 11-2000, f. & cert. ef. 7-27-00
DEQ 14-1999, f. & cert. ef. 10-14-99, Renumbered from 340-032-0510, 340-032-5520
DEQ 32-1994, f. & cert. ef. 12-22-94
DEQ 18-1993, f. & cert. ef. 11-4-93
DEQ 18-1998, f. & cert. ef. 10-5-98
DEQ 28-1996, f. & cert. ef. 12-19-96
DEQ 16-1995, f. & cert. ef. 6-21-95

340-244-0231
Gasoline Dispensing Facilities: Purpose

Rules under OAR 340-244-0231 through -0252 establish emission limitations and management practices for hazardous air pollutants and volatile organic compounds emitted from the loading of gasoline storage tanks and dispensing of fuel at gasoline dispensing facilities. OAR 340-244-0231 through -0252 also establish requirements to demonstrate compliance with the emission limitations and management practices.

[NOTE: This rule is included in the State of Oregon Clean Air Act Implementation Plan that EQC adopted under OAR 340-200-0040 only for affected sources in the Portland-Vancouver, Medford-Ashland, and Salem-Keizer Area Transportation Study air quality management areas and all of Clackamas, Multnomah, and Washington counties.]

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020 & 468A.025
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468.020
History:
DEQ 4-2024, adopt filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024

340-244-0232
Gasoline Dispensing Facilities: Definitions

The following definitions apply to OAR 340-244-0232 through -0252. If the same term is defined in this rule and OAR 340-200-0020, 340-244-0030, or 340-218-0030, the definition in this rule applies to OAR 340-244-0231 through -0252.

(1) "Annual throughput" means the total volume of gasoline that is loaded into, or dispensed from, all gasoline storage tanks at each GDF during a year. Annual throughput is calculated by summing the volume of gasoline loaded into, or dispensed from, all gasoline storage tanks at each GDF during the current day, plus the total volume of gasoline loaded into, or dispensed from, all gasoline storage tanks at each GDF during the previous 364 days.

(2) “Aviation gasoline” means a complex mixture of volatile hydrocarbons, with or without additives, suitably blended to be used in aviation reciprocating engines. Specifications are found in ASTM Specification D910–07a.

(3) “CARB” means the California Air Resources Board.

(4) “Dual-point” means a storage tank is equipped with an entry port for a gasoline fill pipe and a separate exit port for a vapor connection.

(5) “Dual-point vapor balance system” means a type of Stage I vapor balance system in which the storage tank is equipped with an entry port for a gasoline fill pipe and a separate exit port for a vapor connection.

(6) "Enhanced Conventional nozzle (ECO nozzle)” means a gasoline dispensing nozzle which does not exceed a spillage rate of 0.12 lbs/1000 gallons, liquid retention which does not exceed 100 mL/1000 gallons, spitting which does not exceed 1.0 mL per nozzle per test and post-fueling drips which do not exceed three Drops/Refueling. A nozzle certified by CARB through an executive order as an ECO nozzle will be considered compliant with this definition.

(7) “Enhanced Vapor Recovery (EVR; Stage I EVR)” means a complete vapor balance system which includes all components outlined in California Air Resources Board executive order VR-101, VR-102, VR-104, or VR-105 as of December 1, 2023. The specific equipment and requirements for an EVR system are found in Table 2 of OAR 340-244-0246.

(8) “Existing” means a GDF that is not new or reconstructed.

(9) "Facility" means all or part of any public or private building, structure, installation, equipment, or vehicle or vessel, including but not limited to ships.

(10) "Gasoline cargo tank" means a delivery tank truck or railcar which is loading or unloading gasoline, or which has loaded or unloaded gasoline on the immediately previous load.

(11) "Gasoline dispensing facility (GDF) " means any stationary facility which dispenses gasoline into the fuel tank of a motor vehicle, motor vehicle engine, nonroad vehicle, or nonroad engine, including a nonroad vehicle or nonroad engine used solely for competition. These facilities include, but are not limited to, facilities that dispense gasoline into on- and off-road, street, or highway motor vehicles, lawn equipment, boats, test engines, landscaping equipment, generators, pumps, and other gasoline-fueled engines and equipment. In Clackamas, Multnomah and Washington Counties, the Medford-Ashland AQMA, and the Salem-Keizer Area Transportation Study, “gasoline dispensing facility” includes any stationary facility which dispenses gasoline into the fuel tank of an airplane.

(12) “Medford-Ashland AQMA” is as defined in Oregon Administrative Rules chapter 340 division 204. 

(13) “New” means a GDF for which an owner or operator had commenced construction after November 9, 2006.  

(14) “ORVR” means Onboard Refueling Vapor Recovery system. This is the system in a motor vehicle, part of the fuel vapor emission control system, and is used to capture volatile organic compounds during the refueling process.

(15) “Portland AQMA” is as defined in Oregon Administrative Rules chapter 340 division 204.

(16) “Reconstructed” means meeting the criteria for reconstruction as defined in 40 C.F.R. 63.2.

(17) "Salem-Keizer (SKATS)” is as defined in Oregon Administrative Rules chapter 340 division 204.

(18) "Stage I vapor balance system (Stage I)” means a combination of pipes and hoses that create a closed system between the vapor spaces of an unloading gasoline cargo tank and a receiving storage tank such that vapors displaced from the storage tank are transferred to the gasoline cargo tank being unloaded.

(19)  “Stage II vapor recovery system (Stage II)” means a system where at least 90 percent, by weight, of the gasoline vapors that are displaced or drawn from a vehicle fuel tank during refueling are transferred to a vapor-tight holding system or vapor control system.

(20) "Submerged filling" means the filling of a gasoline storage tank through a submerged fill pipe whose discharge is no more than the applicable distance specified in OAR 340-244-0245(2) from the bottom of the tank. Bottom filling of gasoline storage tanks is also submerged filling. .

(21) “Throughput” means the volume of gasoline loaded into, or dispensed from, gasoline storage tanks at a GDF.

(22) "Topping off" means, in the absence of equipment malfunction, continuing to fill a gasoline tank after the nozzle has clicked off.

(23) "Vapor balance system" means Stage I vapor balance system.

(24) "Vapor-tight" means equipment that allows no loss of vapors. Compliance with vapor-tight requirements can be determined by checking to ensure that the concentration at a potential leak source is not equal to or greater than 100 percent of the Lower Explosive Limit when measured with a combustible gas detector, calibrated with propane, at a distance of 1 inch from the source.

(25) "Vapor-tight gasoline cargo tank" means a gasoline cargo tank which has demonstrated within the 12 preceding months that it meets the annual certification test requirements in 40 C.F.R. 63.11092(f).

[NOTE: This rule is included in the State of Oregon Clean Air Act Implementation Plan that EQC adopted under OAR 340-200-0040 only for affected sources in the Portland-Vancouver, Medford-Ashland, and Salem-Keizer Area Transportation Study air quality management areas and all of Clackamas, Multnomah, and Washington counties.]

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020 & 468A.025
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.025
History:
DEQ 4-2024, amend filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024
DEQ 7-2015, f. & cert. ef. 4-16-15
DEQ 15-2008, f. & cert. ef 12-31-08

340-244-0234
Gasoline Dispensing Facilities: Affected Equipment and Sources

(1) The emission sources to which the Gasoline Dispensing Facilities rules under OAR 340-244-0231 through 340-244-0252 apply are gasoline storage tanks and all associated equipment components in vapor or liquid gasoline service at a GDF.

(2) The affected source to which the emission standards apply is each GDF. The affected source includes each gasoline cargo tank during the delivery of gasoline to a GDF, each gasoline storage tank, pressure/vacuum vents on gasoline storage tanks and the equipment necessary to unload product from cargo tanks into the storage tanks at a GDF.

(3) The emissions standards in OAR 340-244-0231 through 340-244-0252 do not apply to agricultural operations as defined in ORS 468A.020. Agricultural operations are however required to comply with the Gasoline Dispensing NESHAP, if applicable (40 C.F.R. part 63 subpart CCCCCC).

(4) Each GDF will fall into one or more of the categories listed in this subsection. Where multiple categories apply to one GDF, the requirements of each applicable category apply to that GDF. Each GDF category is followed by a number which is used to indicate which rules in this division apply to that GDF:

(a) A GDF located anywhere in the state that has only gasoline storage tanks with capacity of less than 250 gallons, hereafter referred to as GDF 1.

(b) A GDF located anywhere in the state with a gasoline storage tank that has a capacity of 250 gallons or more, hereafter referred to as GDF 2.

(c) A GDF located anywhere in the state with 120,000 gallons or more of annual gasoline throughput, hereafter referred to as GDF 3.

(d) A GDF located anywhere in the state with 600,000 gallons or more of annual gasoline throughput, hereafter referred to as GDF 4.

(e) A GDF located anywhere in the state with 1,000,000 gallons or more of annual gasoline throughput, hereafter referred to as GDF 5.

(5) The owner or operator of a GDF is not required to obtain an Oregon Title V Operating Permit as a result of being subject to OAR 340-244-0231 through 340-244-0252 However, the owner or operator of a GDF must still apply for and obtain an Oregon Title V Operating Permit if meeting one or more of the applicability criteria found in 340-218-0020.

(6) The loading of aviation gasoline storage tanks at airports, and the subsequent transfer of aviation gasoline within the airport, is not subject to OAR 340-244-0231 through 340-244-0252, except in Clackamas, Multnomah, and Washington Counties, Medford-Ashland AQMA and the Salem-Keizer SKATS. In these geographic areas, aviation gasoline is subject to 340-244-0231 through 340-244-0252.

(7) The dispensing of gasoline from a fixed gasoline storage tank at a GDF into a portable gasoline tank for the on-site delivery and subsequent dispensing of the gasoline into the fuel tank of a motor vehicle or other gasoline-fueled engine or equipment used within the area source is only subject to OAR 340-244-0245(1).

(8) If the affected source ever exceeds an applicable threshold, throughput or otherwise, the affected source will remain subject to the requirements for sources above the threshold, even if the affected source later falls below the applicable threshold.

(9) For a source that becomes subject to a requirement to install a Stage I vapor balance system, Enhanced Vapor Recovery system, or complete any other equipment change because of an increase in throughput, the owner or operator must have completed the equipment changes no later than 24 months after the affected source becomes subject to the additional or changed requirement, unless otherwise specified within this division.

(10) A split compartment gasoline storage tank (i.e., one storage tank that is internally divided to hold two or more different types of liquid) will have each compartment of the tank treated as a separate storage tank for purposes of compliance with OAR 340-244-0231 through -0252.

(11) The owner or operator of a new GDF, a reconstructed GDF that has ever had annual throughput of 1,000,000 gallons of gasoline or more, or any new or replaced storage tank(s) at a GDF that has ever had annual throughput of 1,000,000 gallons of gasoline or more must comply with OAR 340-244-0248(1).

(12) All equipment installed at a GDF that is in gasoline liquid or vapor service must be compatible with gasoline according to the equipment manufacturer’s instructions or documentation.

[NOTE: This rule is included in the State of Oregon Clean Air Act Implementation Plan that EQC adopted under OAR 340-200-0040 only for affected sources in the Portland-Vancouver, Medford-Ashland, and Salem-Keizer Area Transportation Study air quality management areas and all of Clackamas, Multnomah, and Washington counties.]

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020 & 468A.025
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.025
History:
DEQ 4-2024, amend filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024
DEQ 7-2015, f. & cert. ef. 4-16-15
DEQ 4-2013, f. & cert. ef. 3-27-13
DEQ 1-2011, f. & cert. ef. 2-24-11
DEQ 15-2008, f. & cert. ef 12-31-08

340-244-0235
Gasoline Dispensing Facilities: General Duties to Minimize Emissions

(1) The owner or operator of a GDF must, at all times, operate and maintain all equipment, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to DEQ which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.

(2) Compliance with this rule does not exempt the owner or operator from enforcement for any noncompliance with applicable requirements during a malfunction event.

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020, 468A.025 & 468A.050
Statutes/Other Implemented: 468A.050 & ORS 468A.025
History:
DEQ 5-2024, renumbered from 340-244-0239, filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024
DEQ 4-2024, amend filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024
DEQ 7-2015, f. & cert. ef. 4-16-15
DEQ 4-2013, f. & cert. ef. 3-27-13

340-244-0236
Emission Standards for Gasoline Dispensing Facilities: Affected Equipment or Processes

(1) The emission sources to which this rule applies are gasoline storage tanks and associated equipment components in vapor or liquid gasoline service at new, reconstructed, or existing GDF that meet the criteria specified in OAR 340-244-0234. Pressure/vacuum vents on gasoline storage tanks and the equipment necessary to unload product from cargo tanks into the storage tanks at GDF are covered emission sources.

(2) An affected source is a new affected source if construction commenced on the affected source after Nov. 9, 2006, and the applicability criteria in OAR 340-244-0234 are met at the time operation commenced.

(3) An affected source is reconstructed if meeting the criteria for reconstruction as defined in 40 CFR 63.2.

(4) An affected source is an existing affected source if it is not new or reconstructed.

NOTE: This rule is included in the State of Oregon Clean Air Act Implementation Plan that EQC adopted under OAR 340-200-0040.

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020 & 468A.025
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.025
History:
DEQ 7-2015, f. & cert. ef. 4-16-15
DEQ 1-2011, f. & cert. ef. 2-24-11
DEQ 15-2008, f. & cert. ef 12-31-08

340-244-0237
Gasoline Dispensing Facilities: GDF 1

The owner or operator of a GDF 1 as described in OAR 340-244-0234(4) must comply with the following requirements:

(1) Work Practices, No Top Off, and Submerged Fill under OAR 340-244-0245; and

(2) Recordkeeping under OAR 340-244-0250.

[NOTE: This rule is included in the State of Oregon Clean Air Act Implementation Plan that EQC adopted under OAR 340-200-0040 only for affected sources in the Portland-Vancouver, Medford-Ashland, and Salem-Keizer Area Transportation Study air quality management areas and all of Clackamas, Multnomah, and Washington counties.]

Statutory/Other Authority: 468.020 & ORS 468A.025
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.025
History:
DEQ 4-2024, adopt filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024

340-244-0238
Gasoline Dispensing Facilities: GDF 2

The owner or operator of a GDF 2 as described in OAR 340-244-0234(4) must comply with the following requirements:

(1) All applicable requirements under OAR 340-244-0237; and

(2) Reporting under OAR 340-244-0251.

[NOTE: This rule is included in the State of Oregon Clean Air Act Implementation Plan that EQC adopted under OAR 340-200-0040 only for affected sources in the Portland-Vancouver, Medford-Ashland, and Salem-Keizer Area Transportation Study air quality management areas and all of Clackamas, Multnomah, and Washington counties.]

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020 & 468A.025
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.025
History:
DEQ 4-2024, amend filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024
DEQ 7-2015, f. & cert. ef. 4-16-15
DEQ 4-2013, f. & cert. ef. 3-27-13
DEQ 1-2011, f. & cert. ef. 2-24-11
DEQ 8-2009, f. & cert. ef. 12-16-09
DEQ 15-2008, f. & cert. ef 12-31-08

340-244-0241
Gasoline Dispensing Facilities: GDF 3

(1) The owner or operator of a GDF 3 as described in OAR 340-244-0234(4) must comply with the following requirements:

(a) All applicable requirements under OAR 340-244-0238; and

(b) Testing requirements under OAR 340-244-0249.

(2) The owner or operator of a GDF 3 which commenced construction on or after July 1, 2024 must comply with OAR 340-244-0248 and install a dual-point vapor balance system on each gasoline storage tank with 250 gallon or greater capacity. Notwithstanding the testing requirements of OAR 340-244-0249, a complete Stage I vapor balance system must be installed before equipment is placed into gasoline service.

(3) The owner or operator of a GDF 3 which commenced construction before July 1, 2024 must comply with OAR 340-244-0248 and install a dual-point vapor balance system on each new or replaced gasoline storage tank with 250 gallon or greater capacity.

[NOTE: This rule is included in the State of Oregon Clean Air Act Implementation Plan that EQC adopted under OAR 340-200-0040 only for affected sources in the Portland-Vancouver, Medford-Ashland, and Salem-Keizer Area Transportation Study air quality management areas and all of Clackamas, Multnomah, and Washington counties.]

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020 & ORS 468A.025
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.025
History:
DEQ 4-2024, adopt filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024

340-244-0242
Gasoline Dispensing Facilities: GDF 4

(1) The owner or operator of a GDF 4 as described in OAR 340-244-0234(4) must comply with all applicable requirements under OAR 340-244-0241;

(2) The owner or operator of a GDF 4 which commenced construction on or after July 1, 2024 must comply with the following for each gasoline storage tank with 250 gallon or greater capacity:

(a) Each storage tank must be dual-point; and

(b) Install an Enhanced Vapor Recovery system on each storage tank and ECO nozzles on each gasoline dispenser under OAR 340-244-0246.

(3) The owner or operator of a GDF 4 which commenced construction before July 1, 2024 without a Stage II vapor recovery system must comply with the following:

(a) Each new, replaced, or reconstructed gasoline storage tank with 250 gallon or greater capacity must be dual-point and install an Enhanced Vapor Recovery system under OAR 340-244-0246; and

(b) The owner or operator must install ECO nozzles on all gasoline dispensers at the time any gasoline storage tank is required to install an Enhanced Vapor Recovery system.

(4) The owner or operator of a GDF 4 which commenced construction before July 1, 2024 and which has a complete Stage II vapor recovery system must comply with OAR 340-244-0247.

[NOTE: This rule is included in the State of Oregon Clean Air Act Implementation Plan that EQC adopted under OAR 340-200-0040 only for affected sources in the Portland-Vancouver, Medford-Ashland, and Salem-Keizer Area Transportation Study air quality management areas and all of Clackamas, Multnomah, and Washington counties.]

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020 & ORS 468A.025
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.025
History:
DEQ 4-2024, amend filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024
DEQ 13-2019, amend filed 05/16/2019, effective 05/16/2019
DEQ 149-2018, minor correction filed 04/11/2018, effective 04/11/2018
DEQ 7-2015, f. & cert. ef. 4-16-15
DEQ 4-2013, f. & cert. ef. 3-27-13
DEQ 1-2011, f. & cert. ef. 2-24-11
DEQ 8-2009, f. & cert. ef. 12-16-09
DEQ 15-2008, f. & cert. ef 12-31-08

340-244-0243
Gasoline Dispensing Facilities: GDF 5

(1) The owner or operator of a GDF 5 as described in OAR 340-244-0234(4) must comply with all applicable requirements under OAR 340-244-0242;

(2) The owner or operator of a GDF 5 which commenced construction on or after July 1, 2024 must comply with the following for each gasoline storage tank with 250 gallon capacity or greater:

(a) The gasoline storage tank must be dual-point; and

(b) Install an Enhanced Vapor Recovery system on each storage tank and ECO nozzles on each gasoline dispenser under OAR 340-244-0246.

(3) The owner or operator of a GDF 5 which commenced construction before July 1, 2024 must comply with the following by no later than December 31, 2029 or 24 months after becoming a GDF 5, whichever is later, for each gasoline storage tank with greater than 250 gallon capacity:

(a) Install an Enhanced Vapor Recovery system on each dual-point gasoline storage tank under OAR 340-244-0246;

(b) Install ECO nozzles on each gasoline dispensing hose under OAR 340-244-0246. An owner or operator of a GDF 5 that has a compatible Stage II vapor recovery system may delay the installation of ECO nozzles until the Stage II vapor recovery system is capped, removed, or otherwise decommissioned according to OAR 340-244-0247; and

(c) Each new or replaced gasoline storage tank must be dual-point and have an Enhanced Vapor Recovery system installed under OAR 340-244-0246 before the tank is brought into gasoline service.

(4) The owner or operator of a GDF 5 which commenced construction before July 1, 2024 subject to this rule must install, maintain and operate a complete vapor balance system under OAR 340-244-0248 on all single point gasoline storage tanks with 250 gallon capacity or greater.  

[NOTE: This rule is included in the State of Oregon Clean Air Act Implementation Plan that EQC adopted under OAR 340-200-0040 only for affected sources in the Portland-Vancouver, Medford-Ashland, and Salem-Keizer Area Transportation Study air quality management areas and all of Clackamas, Multnomah, and Washington counties.]

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020 & ORS 468A.025
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.025
History:
DEQ 4-2024, adopt filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024

340-244-0245
Gasoline Dispensing Facilities: Work Practices, No Top Off, and Submerged Fill

(1) Work Practices. The owner or operator of a GDF must not allow gasoline to be handled in a manner that would result in vapor releases to the atmosphere for extended periods of time. Measures to be taken include, but are not limited to, the following:

(a) Minimize gasoline spills;

(b) Do not top off or overfill vehicle tanks.

(A) If a person can confirm that a vehicle tank is not full after the nozzle clicks off, such as by checking the vehicle’s fuel tank gauge, the person may continue to dispense fuel using best judgment and caution to prevent a spill;

(B) Post sign(s) at the GDF instructing a person filling up a motor vehicle to not top off the vehicle tank. A sign must be placed on each gasoline dispenser, or on a permanent fixture within six feet of the dispenser, and be clearly visible to an individual using the hose and nozzle to dispense gasoline;

(c) Clean up spills as expeditiously as practicable. The owner or operator must develop a written plan that describes how a spill will be cleaned up upon occurrence. The plan must include, but is not limited to, where spill materials are located, a brief description of how each is used, and an explanation of how the owner or operator is implementing the ‘as expeditiously as practicable’ requirement of this subsection (c).

(d) Cover all open gasoline containers and all gasoline storage tank fill-pipes with a gasketed seal when not in use;

(e) Minimize gasoline sent to open waste collection systems that collect and transport gasoline to reclamation and recycling devices, such as oil/water separators.

(f) Ensure that cargo tanks unloading gasoline at the GDF comply with subsections (1)(a) through (d).

(2) Submerged Fill. Except for gasoline storage tanks with a capacity of less than 250 gallons, the owner or operator of a GDF must only load gasoline into storage tanks at the GDF by utilizing submerged filling, as defined in OAR 340-244-0232, and as specified in subsection (2)(a), (2)(b), or (2)(c). The applicable distances in subsections (2)(a) and (2)(b) must be measured from the point in the opening of the submerged fill pipe that is the greatest distance from the bottom of the storage tank.

(a) Submerged fill pipes installed on or before Nov. 9, 2006, must be no more than 12 inches from the bottom of the storage tank.

(b) Submerged fill pipes installed after Nov. 9, 2006, must be no more than 6 inches from the bottom of the storage tank.

(c) Submerged fill pipes not meeting the specifications of subsection (2)(a) or (2)(b) are allowed if the owner or operator of a GDF can demonstrate that the liquid level in the tank is and always has been above the entire opening of the fill pipe. Documentation providing such demonstration must be made available for inspection by DEQ during the course of a site visit or upon request within 48 hours.

(3) Cargo Tank Unloading. Any cargo tank unloading at a GDF that is equipped with a Stage I vapor balance system or Enhanced Vapor Recovery system must connect to the system whenever gasoline is being loaded.

(4) Portable gasoline containers that meet the requirements of 40 C.F.R. part 59 subpart F are considered acceptable for compliance with subsection (1)(d).

[NOTE: This rule is included in the State of Oregon Clean Air Act Implementation Plan that EQC adopted under OAR 340-200-0040 only for affected sources in the Portland-Vancouver, Medford-Ashland, and Salem-Keizer Area Transportation Study air quality management areas and all of Clackamas, Multnomah, and Washington counties.]

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020 & 468A.025
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.025
History:
DEQ 5-2024, renumbered from 340-244-0240, filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024
DEQ 4-2024, amend filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024
DEQ 7-2015, f. & cert. ef. 4-16-15
DEQ 4-2013, f. & cert. ef. 3-27-13
DEQ 8-2009, f. & cert. ef. 12-16-09
DEQ 15-2008, f. & cert. ef 12-31-08

340-244-0246
Gasoline Dispensing Facilities: Enhanced Vapor Recovery Requirements

(1) All storage tanks referred to this rule that are new, replaced, or reconstructed after July 1, 2024 must be equipped with CARB certified Stage I Enhanced Vapor Recovery equipment before being placed into gasoline service. CARB certified Enhanced Vapor Recovery system components are listed in Table 2 of this rule.

(2) All gasoline dispensing nozzles at a GDF referred to this rule and not in Stage II vapor recovery service must be Enhanced Conventional Nozzles by no later than July 1, 2024, unless otherwise specified.  

(3) Any alteration of the equipment, parts, design, or operation of the Enhanced Vapor Recovery system as certified by CARB is prohibited and must not be performed. 

(4) The owner or operator of a GDF referred to this rule must comply with the following:

(a) In order to ensure that the Enhanced Vapor Recovery equipment is maintained to be vapor tight and in good working order, have the equipment inspected on at least an annual basis to discover potential or actual equipment failures. Some components require more frequent inspection or maintenance. Where this annual inspection requirement and Table 2 conflict, the more frequent inspection or maintenance requirement applies;

(b) Replace, repair or modify the affected component or design element within 24 hours after the owner or operator knows or reasonably should know of the component or design element being worn or ineffective to ensure the vapor-tight integrity and efficiency of the Enhanced Vapor Recovery system. If repair parts must be ordered, either a written or oral order for those parts must be initiated within two working days of detecting such a leak. Such repair parts must be installed within five working days after receipt; and

(c) Maintain spill containers (buckets) for gasoline storage tanks free of liquid and solid materials.

(5) The owner or operator of a GDF equipped with an Enhanced Vapor Recovery system must operate and maintain all EVR components in accordance with manufacturer’s specifications and Table 2 of this rule.

(6) The owner or operator of a GDF equipped with an EVR system must retain records as specified under OAR 340-244-0250 and Table 2 of this rule for the applicable EVR equipment or component.

(7) An owner or operator of a GDF required to install a Stage I EVR system may install components from different sections of Table 2 of this rule (i.e., ‘mix and match’) as long as each component specified in each section of Table 2 has a CARB approved component installed and the complete EVR system can pass all required performance tests.

(8) The owner or operator must maintain an equipment installation checklist or similar (e.g., record) which clearly documents which components were installed on each affected gasoline storage tank. The equipment installation checklist or similar document must be replaced, updated or revised each time a required EVR component is replaced.

[Note: For additional information on Enhanced Vapor Recovery systems, including manufacturer’s requirements, installation specifications, and warranty information, please see the applicable California Air Resources Board Executive Orders.]

[ED. NOTE: To view attachments referenced in rule text, click here to view rule.]

[NOTE: This rule is included in the State of Oregon Clean Air Act Implementation Plan that EQC adopted under OAR 340-200-0040 only for affected sources in the Portland-Vancouver, Medford-Ashland, and Salem-Keizer Area Transportation Study air quality management areas and all of Clackamas, Multnomah, and Washington counties.]

[ED. NOTE: To view attachments referenced in rule text, click here to view rule.]

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020, 468A.025 & 468A.050
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.025 & 468A.050
History:
DEQ 4-2024, amend filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024
DEQ 7-2015, f. & cert. ef. 4-16-15
DEQ 4-2013, f. & cert. ef. 3-27-13
DEQ 8-2009, f. & cert. ef. 12-16-09
DEQ 15-2008, f. & cert. ef 12-31-08

340-244-0247
Gasoline Dispensing Facilities: Stage II Vapor Recovery System

(1) The owner or operator of a GDF with a Stage II vapor recovery system referred to this rule must determine, by no later than July 1, 2024, whether the currently installed Stage II vapor recovery system is compatible or incompatible with motor vehicle Onboard Refueling Vapor Recovery systems (ORVR). A Stage II vapor recovery system is incompatible with ORVR, for example, if it actively draws gasoline vapor during dispensing and does not cease the vacuum draw when dispensing gasoline into an ORVR-equipped motor vehicle.

(a) Owners or operators with ORVR compatible Stage II vapor recovery systems must comply with section (2) of this rule; and

(b) Owners or operators with ORVR incompatible Stage II vapor recovery systems must comply with sections (3) or (4) of this rule.

(2) The owner or operator of an ORVR-compatible Stage II vapor recovery system may remove the Stage II vapor recovery system if the following conditions are met:

(a) The owner or operator complies with notice of construction requirements of division 210, as applicable;

(b) The owner or operator installs a complete Enhanced Vapor Recovery system on each gasoline storage tank with 250 gallon capacity or greater under OAR 340-244-0246;

(c) The owner or operator installs ECO nozzles on each gasoline dispensing hose under OAR 340-244-0246;

(d) The Enhanced Vapor Recovery system and ECO nozzles must be installed no later than the same calendar day the complete Stage II vapor recovery system is uninstalled, capped, or otherwise decommissioned according to OAR 340-244-0247, except as provided in subsection (2)(e);

(e) If the owner or operator is not dispensing any gasoline from or loading any gasoline into any gasoline storage tanks at the facility, the Enhanced Vapor Recovery system and ECO nozzles must instead be installed before any gasoline is dispensed from or loaded into any gasoline storage tank at the facility.

(3) The owner or operator of an ORVR-incompatible Stage II vapor recovery system must remove, cap, or otherwise decommission the Stage II vapor recovery system no later than December 31, 2025 in accordance with OAR 340-244-0247(10) and:

(a) Comply with the notice of construction requirements of division 210, as applicable;

(b) Install a complete Enhanced Vapor Recovery system on each gasoline storage tank with 250 gallon capacity or greater under OAR 340-244-0246;

(c) Install ECO nozzles on each gasoline dispensing hose under OAR 340-244-0246;

(d) The Enhanced Vapor Recovery system and ECO nozzles must be installed no later than the same calendar day the complete Stage II vapor recovery system is uninstalled, capped, or otherwise decommissioned according to OAR 340-244-0247, except as provided in subsection (3)(e);

(e) If the owner or operator is not dispensing any gasoline from or loading any gasoline into any gasoline storage tanks at the facility, the Enhanced Vapor Recovery system and ECO nozzles must instead be installed before any gasoline is dispensed from or loaded into any gasoline storage tank at the facility.

(4) The owner or operator of an incompatible Stage II vapor recovery system must install a compatible Stage II vapor recovery system no later than December 31, 2025, and comply with the notice of construction requirements of division 210, as applicable.

(5) No owner or operator of a GDF may transfer or allow the transfer of gasoline into a motor vehicle fuel tank using a Stage II vapor recovery system that is incompatible with motor vehicle ORVR systems after December 31, 2025.

(6) An owner or operator of a GDF that wants to install an ORVR-compatible Stage II vapor recovery system when not otherwise required to do so by this division must submit a notice of construction under division 210 and receive written DEQ approval before installing the equipment.

[NOTE: Underground piping requirements are described in OAR chapter 340 division 150 and 40 C.F.R. 280.20(d). Systems installed according to Petroleum Equipment Institute Publication RP100, “Recommended Practices for Installation of Underground Liquid Storage Systems”, RP300, “Installation and Testing of Vapor Recovery Systems”, or American Society of Mechanical Engineers Standard B31.4 “Pipeline Transportation Systems for Liquid Hydrocarbons and Other Liquids” or manufacturer specifications are considered approved systems.]

(7) Owners and operators of gasoline-dispensing facilities with Stage II vapor recovery systems must:

(a) Provide adequate training and written instructions to the operator of the affected gasoline-dispensing facility and the gasoline transport vehicle. Written instructions must be readily available to onsite staff, contractors, and similar individuals (electronic or hardcopy);

(b) Inspect all components of the Stage II vapor recovery system, including but not limited to all hoses and nozzles, at least once every three months;

(c) Replace, repair or modify any worn or ineffective component or design element to ensure the vapor-tight integrity and efficiency of the Stage II vapor recovery systems. The affected component or design element must be replaced, repaired, or modified within 24 hours after the owner or operator knows or reasonably should know of the component or design element being worn on ineffective to ensure the vapor-tight integrity and efficiency of the Stage II vapor recovery system. If repair parts must be ordered, either a written or oral order for those parts must be initiated within two working days of detecting such a leak. Such repair parts must be installed within five working days after receipt; and

(d) Connect and ensure proper operation of the Stage II vapor recovery systems whenever gasoline is being loaded, unloaded or dispensed.

(8) Approval of a Stage II vapor recovery system by DEQ does not relieve the owner or operator of the responsibility to comply with other applicable codes and regulations, including, without limitation, those pertaining to fire prevention, weights and measures, and safety matters.

(9) Regarding installation, removal, decommissioning and testing of piping for Stage II vapor recovery systems:

(a) Piping must be installed, modified, decommissioned or removed in accordance with standards in OAR 340 division 150 as applicable;

(b) Piping must be installed, modified, decommissioned or removed by a licensed service provider pursuant to OAR 340 division 160 as applicable; and

(c) Piping must be tested prior to being placed into operation by an installation or tank tightness testing service provider licensed pursuant to OAR 340 division 160 as defined by the appropriate testing method.

(10) Stage II vapor recovery system decommissioning. The owner or operator of a GDF that is removing, capping, or otherwise decommissioning a Stage II vapor recovery system must comply with the following during the decommissioning, as applicable:

(a) Initiate all appropriate safety procedures;

(b) Relieve pressure in tank ullage;

(c) Drain liquid-collection points;

(d) Disconnect all vapor pumping or processing units;

(e) Disconnect all electrical components of the Stage II vapor recovery system so that no electrics hazards are created;

(f) Reprogram the dispenser electronics to reflect that the Stage II vapor recovery system is no longer in service;

(g) Securely seal off the below grade vapor piping at height below the level of the base of the dispenser and capped with compatible cap material;

(h) Securely seal off the below grade vapor piping at the tank end if it is easily accessible and cap with compatible material;

(i) Securely seal off the vapor piping inside the dispenser and cap with compatible material;  

(j) Replace Stage II vapor recovery system  hanging hardware with conventional hanging hardware or Enhanced Conventional Nozzles, as applicable;

(k) Install appropriate Pressure Vacuum Vent valves;

(l) Remove any instructions from the dispenser cabinet;

(m) Conduct a pressure test for all gasoline storage tanks above 250 gallon capacity at the site according to OAR 340-244-0249(6)(a)(A); and

(n) Verify visible components of storage tank are left in condition that will reliably prevent the release of vapors/liquids from any system component.

[NOTE: This rule is included in the State of Oregon Clean Air Act Implementation Plan that EQC adopted under OAR 340-200-0040 only for affected sources in the Portland-Vancouver, Medford-Ashland, and Salem-Keizer Area Transportation Study air quality management areas and all of Clackamas, Multnomah, and Washington counties.]

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020 & 468A.025
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.025
History:
DEQ 5-2024, renumbered from 340-242-0520, filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024
DEQ 4-2024, amend filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024
DEQ 7-2015, f. & cert. ef. 4-16-15
DEQ 15-2008, f. & cert. ef 12-31-08
DEQ 14-1999, f. & cert. ef. 10-14-99, Renumbered from 340-022-0402
DEQ 20-1998, f. & cert. ef. 10-12-98
DEQ 16-1996, f. & cert. ef. 8-14-96
DEQ 25-1994, f. & cert. ef. 11-22-94
DEQ 4-1993, f. & cert. ef. 3-10-93
DEQ 7-1991, f. & cert. ef. 5-7-91 (and corrected 6-7-91)

340-244-0248
Gasoline Dispensing Facilities: Stage I Vapor Balance System

(1) The owner or operator of a GDF or storage tank referred to this rule, except for gasoline storage tanks with floating roofs or the equivalent, must meet each of the following management practice and equipment requirements for a Stage I vapor balance system on each gasoline storage tank:

(a) All vapor connections and lines on the storage tank must be equipped with closures that seal upon disconnect;

(b) The vapor line from the gasoline storage tank to the gasoline cargo tank must be vapor-tight, as defined in OAR 340-244-0232;

(c) The Stage I vapor balance system must be designed such that the pressure in the tank truck does not exceed 18 inches water pressure or 5.9 inches water vacuum during product transfer;

(d) The vapor recovery and product adaptors, and the method of connection with the delivery elbow, must be designed so as to prevent the over-tightening or loosening of fittings during normal delivery operations;

(e) If a gauge well separate from the fill tube is used, it must be provided with a submerged drop tube that extends the same distance from the bottom of the storage tank as specified in OAR 340-244-0245(2);

(f) Liquid fill and vapor return connections for all systems must be equipped with vapor-tight caps;

(g) Pressure/vacuum (PV) vent valves must be installed on the storage tank vent pipes. The pressure specifications for PV vent valves must be a positive pressure setting of 2.5 to 6.0 inches of water and a negative pressure setting of 6.0 to 10.0 inches of water. The total leak rate of all PV vent valves at an affected facility, including connections, must not exceed 0.17 cubic foot per hour at a pressure of 2.0 inches of water and 0.63 cubic foot per hour at a vacuum of 4 inches of water; and

(h) The vapor balance system must be capable of meeting the static pressure performance requirement of the following equation:

Pf = 2e-500.887/v

Where:

Pf = Minimum allowable final pressure, inches of water.

V = Total ullage affected by the test, in gallons.

E = Dimensionless constant equal to approximately 2.718.

2 = The initial pressure, in inches water.

(2) The owner or operator of a new GDF, a reconstructed GDF that has ever had annual throughput of 1,000,000 gallons of gasoline or more, or any new or replaced storage tank(s) at a GDF that has ever had annual throughput of 1,000,000 gallons of gasoline or more must install and operate a dual-point vapor balance system, as defined in OAR 340-244-0232, on each affected gasoline storage tank and comply with the design criteria in section (1) of this rule. The dual-point vapor balance system must be installed

(3) The owner or operator of a cargo tank unloading at a GDF must comply with the requirements of OAR 340-244-0245(1) and must not unload gasoline into a storage tank at a GDF with a Stage I vapor balance system unless the following conditions are met:

(a) All hoses in the vapor balance system are properly connected;

(b) The adapters or couplers that attach to the vapor line on the storage tank have closures that seal upon disconnect;

(c) All vapor return hoses, couplers, and adapters used in the gasoline delivery are vapor-tight;

(d) All tank truck vapor return equipment is compatible in size and forms a vapor-tight connection with the vapor balance equipment on the GDF storage tank;

(e) All hatches on the tank truck are closed and securely fastened; and

(f) The filling of storage tanks at GDF must be limited to unloading by vapor-tight gasoline cargo tanks. Documentation that the cargo tank has met the specifications of EPA Method 27 must be carried on or with the cargo tank.

(4) The owner or operator of a  gasoline storage tank referred to this rule must comply with the following requirements:

(a) When loading a gasoline storage tank equipped with a Stage I vapor balance system, connect and ensure the proper operation of the system whenever gasoline is being loaded;

(b) Maintain all equipment associated with the Stage I vapor balance system to be vapor tight and in good working order;

(c) In order to ensure that the Stage I vapor balance equipment is maintained to be vapor tight and in good working order, have the vapor balance equipment inspected every six months to discover potential or actual equipment failures; and

(d) Replace, repair or modify the affected component or design element within 24 hours after the owner or operator knows or reasonably should know of the component or design element being worn on ineffective to ensure the vapor-tight integrity and efficiency of the Stage I vapor balance system. If repair parts must be ordered, either a written or oral order for those parts must be initiated within two working days of detecting such a leak. Such repair parts must be installed within five working days after receipt.

(5) The owner or operator of a GDF or storage tank referred to this rule must:

(a) Maintain spill containers (buckets) for gasoline storage tanks free of liquid and solid materials;

(b) Equip gasoline dispensing hoses with an emergency breakaway device designed to retain liquid on both sides of a breakaway point. When hoses are attached to a hose-retrieving mechanism, the emergency breakaway device must be located between the hose nozzle and the point of attachment of the host retrieval mechanism to the hose; and

(c) Limit the maximum flow rate from each dispenser to no more than 10 gallons per minute (37.9 liters per minute). The flow rate may be controlled through any means in the pump/dispenser system, provided the flow rate limit is complied with. Any dispensing pump that is dedicated exclusively to heavy-duty vehicles, boats, or airplanes is exempt from this requirement. 

(6) In any instance in which the applicable equipment or requirements of this rule directly conflict with applicable equipment or requirements of the Enhanced Vapor Recovery rule under OAR 340-244-0246, the EVR requirements and rule -0246 will supersede this rule. 

[NOTE: This rule is included in the State of Oregon Clean Air Act Implementation Plan that EQC adopted under OAR 340-200-0040 only for affected sources in the Portland-Vancouver, Medford-Ashland, and Salem-Keizer Area Transportation Study air quality management areas and all of Clackamas, Multnomah, and Washington counties.]

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020, 468A.025 & 468A.050
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.025 & 468A.050
History:
DEQ 4-2024, amend filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024
DEQ 7-2015, f. & cert. ef. 4-16-15
DEQ 4-2013, f. & cert. ef. 3-27-13
DEQ 1-2011, f. & cert. ef. 2-24-11
DEQ 15-2008, f. & cert. ef 12-31-08

340-244-0249
Gasoline Dispensing Facilities: Testing and Monitoring Requirements

(1) Effective March 23, 2024, the testing listed in this rule must be conducted and passed for each Stage I vapor balance system, Enhanced Vapor Recovery system, and Stage II vapor recovery system, as applicable. Initial tests must be completed no later than July 1, 2025. For owners or operators assigned to or issued an Air Contaminant Discharge Permit which requires testing, the testing requirements of both the Air Contaminant Discharge Permit and this rule must be met for the initial and subsequent tests.

(2) All subsequent tests must be conducted at the frequency required by this rule and no later than the end of the calendar month during which the initial test was conducted.

(3) Stage I Vapor Balance and Stage II vapor recovery. The following test requirements apply to Stage I vapor balance and Stage II vapor recovery systems:

(a) An owner or operator of a GDF installing a complete Stage I vapor balance or Stage II vapor recovery system must conduct and pass a “Pressure test”, “PV Vent Valve test”, and “Leak Rate of Drop Tube test” under section (6) prior to placing the equipment into gasoline service. If necessary for testing purposes, enough gasoline to conduct the performance test may be loaded into the gasoline storage tank(s) at the GDF;

(b) A GDF that has only conducted initial testing upon installation of the Stage I vapor balance system for “Pressure test” and “PV Vent Valve test”, as listed under section (6), must conduct and pass a test for both of these and a “Leak Rate of Drop Tube test” before July 1, 2025;

(c) A GDF with a Stage I vapor balance system must conduct and pass a “Pressure test” and “PV Vent Valve test” under section (6) at least once every 24 months.

(4) Enhanced Vapor Recovery. The following test requirements apply to Enhanced Vapor Recovery systems:

(a) An owner or operator of a GDF installing an Enhanced Vapor Recovery system must conducted and pass the following tests, as listed under section (6) prior to placing the equipment into gasoline service. If necessary for testing purposes, enough gasoline to conduct the performance test may be loaded into the gasoline storage tank(s) at the GDF:

(A) “Pressure test”;

(B) “PV Vent Valve test”;

(C) “Static Torque test” if the EVR system has rotatable adapters; and

(D)  “Leak Rate of Drop Tube test”.

(b) An owner or operator of a GDF that is equipped with an Enhanced Vapor Recovery system must conduct the tests listed in paragraph (4)(a)(A) through (D) at least once every 24 months.

(5) A failed test completed timely and a passing test completed after the required frequency is not compliant with this rule. Frequency requirements established in section (6) of this rule pertain to test results which demonstrate the vapor control equipment is functioning properly according to the applicable test method. 

(6) Compliance tests for gasoline vapor control equipment are as follows:

(a) Stage I vapor balance and Stage I EVR systems must:

(A) Conduct a Pressure test every 24 months. A pressure test is either CARB Vapor Recovery Test Procedure 201.3 (TP-201.3) ‘Determination of 2-Inch WC Static Pressure Performance of Vapor Recovery Systems of Dispensing Facilities’ or Bay Area Air Quality Management District Source Test Procedure ST-30 ‘Static Pressure Integrity Test — Underground Storage Tanks’.

(B) Conduct a Leak Rate of Drop Tube test every 24 months. A Leak Rate of Drop Tube test is either Test Procedure 201.1C (TP-201.1C) ‘Leak Rate of Drop Tube/Drain Valve Assembly’ or Test Procedure 201.1D (TP-201.1D) ‘Leak Rate of Drop Tube Overfill Prevention Devices and Spill Container Drain Valves’ depending on the system configuration.

(C) Conduct a PV Vent Valve test every 24 months. A PV Vent Valve test is either CARB Vapor Recovery Test Procedure 201.1E (TP-201.1E) ‘Leak Rate and Cracking Pressure of Pressure/Vacuum Vent Valves’ or CARB Vapor Recovery Test Procedure 201.1E (TP-201.1E) Alternate version (August 5, 2005).

(b) Stage I EVR systems with rotatable adapters must conduct a Static Torque test every 24 months. A static torque test is CARB test procedure 201.1B (TP-201.1B) ‘Static Torque of Rotatable Phase I Adaptors’.

(7) Each owner or operator of a GDF choosing to use a Stage I vapor balance system other than that described in this division, must comply with the procedures specified in the provisions of 40 C.F.R. 63.6(g) before placing the alternative system into gasoline service.

(a) The owner or operator must retain documentation of EPA’s approval of the alternative for as long as the alternative system is in use at the site; and

(b) The owner or operator must comply with all conditions and stipulations included with the alternative approval from EPA.

(8) Conduct of performance tests. All performance tests must be conducted under conditions based on representative performance, i.e., performance based on normal operating conditions, of the affected source. Upon request by DEQ, the owner or operator of a GDF must make available such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests and representative performance.

(9) Owners and operators of gasoline cargo tanks subject to the provisions of OAR 340-244-0248(3) must conduct annual certification testing according to the vapor tightness testing requirements found in 40 C.F.R. 63.11092(f). EPA Method 27 as in effect on July 1, 2023 is hereby incorporated by reference. 40 C.F.R. part 60 Appendix A-8. 

(10) Owners or operators of a gasoline storage tank that has a drop tube replaced not in association with the installation of a Stage I Vapor Balance system or Enhanced Vapor Recovery system must conduct and pass a ‘Pressure Test’ as described in section (6) within 45 days of the date a drop tube was installed.

[NOTE: This rule, excluding section (7), is included in the State of Oregon Clean Air Act Implementation Plan that EQC adopted under OAR 340-200-0040 only for affected sources in the Portland-Vancouver, Medford-Ashland, and Salem-Keizer Area Transportation Study air quality management areas and all of Clackamas, Multnomah, and Washington counties.]

[NOTE: View a PDF of referenced documents by clicking on ‘Tables” link below.]

[ED. NOTE: To view attachments referenced in rule text, click here to view rule.]

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020, 468A.025 & 468A.070
Statutes/Other Implemented: 468A.070 & ORS 468A.025
History:
DEQ 5-2024, renumbered from 340-244-0244, filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024
DEQ 4-2024, amend filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024
DEQ 13-2019, amend filed 05/16/2019, effective 05/16/2019
DEQ 7-2015, f. & cert. ef. 4-16-15
DEQ 4-2013, f. & cert. ef. 3-27-13
DEQ 1-2011, f. & cert. ef. 2-24-11
DEQ 15-2008, f. & cert. ef 12-31-08

340-244-0250
Gasoline Dispensing Facilities: Recordkeeping

(1) The owner or operator of a GDF must have records available within 24 hours of a request by DEQ to document gasoline throughput.

(2) Each owner or operator of a GDF must keep the following records:

(a) Records of all tests performed under this division;

(b) Records related to the operation and maintenance of all equipment in gasoline service, including Stage I vapor balance, Enhanced Vapor Recovery, and Stage II vapor recovery equipment. Any equipment in gasoline or vapor service with a defect, leak, or malfunction must be logged and tracked by the owner or operator using forms provided by DEQ or a reasonable facsimile;

(c) Records of total throughput volume of gasoline, in gallons, for each calendar month;

(d) Records of permanent changes made at the GDF and equipment in gasoline service which may affect emissions. This includes, but is not limited to, installing new gasoline storage tanks, installing new vapor control equipment, changing vapor control equipment, or removing gasoline storage tanks or vapor control equipment;

(e) Records of the occurrence and duration of each malfunction of operation,  including, without limitation, malfunctions of process equipment or the air pollution control and monitoring equipment;

(f) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with OAR 340-244-0235, including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation;

(g) If subject to OAR 340-244-0245(2), submerged fill requirements, the owner or operator must keep documentation from the equipment manufacturer, a service provider, or other similar documentation which demonstrates that each submerged fill tube is a compliant length. These records must be retained for as long as the owner or operator is subject to any submerged fill requirements under OAR 340-244-0245(2); and

(h) A copy of the written plan for cleanup of spills required by OAR 340-244-0245(1)(c). The plan must be retained for as long as the facility meets the definition of a GDF. 

(3) Records required under section (2) must be kept for a period of 5 years, unless otherwise specified, and must be made available for inspection and review by DEQ during the course of a site visit.

(4) Each owner or operator of a gasoline cargo tank subject to the requirements in OAR 340-244-0248(3) must keep records documenting vapor tightness testing for a period of 5 years. Documentation must include each of the items specified in 40 CFR 63.11094(b)(2)(i) through (viii).

(a) Records of vapor tightness testing must include at least the following:

(A) Name of test: ‘Annual Certification Test—Method 27’;

(B) Cargo tank owner's name and address;

(C) Cargo tank identification number;

(D) Test location and date;

(E) Tester name and signature;

(F) Witnessing inspector, if any: Name, signature, and affiliation.

(G) Vapor tightness repair: Nature of repair work and when performed in relation to vapor tightness testing; and

(H) Test results: Test pressure, pressure or vacuum change, mm of water, time period of test, number of leaks found with instrument, and leak definition.

(b)Records of vapor tightness testing must be retained with the cargo tank; or

(c) As an alternative to keeping all records with the cargo tank under (4)(b), the owner or operator of a gasoline cargo tank may keep records of only the most recent vapor tightness test with the cargo tank and keep records for the previous 4 years at their office or another central location. Vapor tightness testing records that are kept at a location other than with the cargo tank must be instantly available (e.g., via e-mail or facsimile) to DEQ during the course of a site visit or within 48 hours of a request. Such records must be an exact duplicate image of the original paper copy record with certifying signatures.

(5) The owner or operator of a GDF that has an Enhanced Vapor Recovery system installed must retain records as specified within Table 2 under OAR 340-244-0246 for the specific EVR system, equipment or component. as applicable.

[NOTE: This rule is included in the State of Oregon Clean Air Act Implementation Plan that EQC adopted under OAR 340-200-0040 only for affected sources in the Portland-Vancouver, Medford-Ashland, and Salem-Keizer Area Transportation Study air quality management areas and all of Clackamas, Multnomah, and Washington counties.]

[ED. NOTE: Tables referenced are available from the agency.]

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020, 468A.025 & 468A.050
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.025 & 468A.050
History:
DEQ 4-2024, amend filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024
DEQ 7-2015, f. & cert. ef. 4-16-15
DEQ 4-2013, f. & cert. ef. 3-27-13
DEQ 15-2008, f. & cert. ef 12-31-08

340-244-0251
Gasoline Dispensing Facilities: Reporting

(1) Test Reports. Each owner or operator of a GDF subject to the requirement to perform a test under OAR 340-244-0249 must report the results to DEQ within 30 days of the completion of the performance testing.

(2) Annual reports. Each owner or operator of a GDF 3, 4 or 5 must report, by February 15 of each year, the following information, as applicable:

(a) The total throughput volume of gasoline, in gallons, for each calendar month and the annual total for the previous calendar year;

(b) A summary of changes made at the GDF on any equipment in gasoline or vapor service which may affect emissions;

(c) List of all major maintenance performed on pollution control devices and equipment in gasoline service;

(d) The number, duration, and a brief description of each malfunction which occurred during the previous calendar year and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded;

(e) A description of actions taken by the owner or operator of a GDF during a malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with OAR 340-244-0235, including actions taken to correct the malfunction.

(3) Initial Notifications. Each owner or operator of a GDF 2, 3, 4, or 5 must:

(a) Submit an Initial Notification that the owner or operator is subject to the Gasoline Dispensing Facilities NESHAP by May 9, 2008, or within 120 days of becoming a GDF 2, 3, 4, or 5. The Initial Notification must contain the information specified in paragraphs (3)(a)(A) through (D). The notification must be submitted to EPA’s Region 10 Office and DEQ as specified in 40 C.F.R. 63.13.

(A) The name and mailing address of the owner and the operator;

(B) The address, i.e., physical location, of the GDF;

(C) The volume of gasoline loaded into all storage tanks or the volume of gasoline dispensed from all storage tanks during the previous twelve months; and

(D) A statement that the notification is being submitted in response to the Gasoline Dispensing Facilities NESHAP and identifying the requirements in OAR 340-244-0245 that apply to the owner or operator of a GDF.

(b) The owner or operator of a GDF who has already submitted an Initial Notification does not need to submit an additional Initial Notification to comply with this section (3) unless requested to do so, in writing, by DEQ.

(4) Notification of Compliance Status. The owner or operator of a GDF must submit a Notification of Compliance Status to EPA’s Region 10 Office and DEQ, as specified in 40 C.F.R. 63.13, within 60 days of the GDF becoming an affected source subject to the requirements of this division.

(a) The Notification of Compliance Status must be signed by a responsible official who must certify its accuracy, must indicate whether the source has complied with the requirements of this division, and must indicate whether the GDF’s throughput is calculated based on the volume of gasoline loaded into all storage tanks or on the volume of gasoline dispensed from all storage tanks.

(b) If the owner or operator of a GDF is in compliance with the requirements of this division at the time the Initial Notification required under section (3) of this rule is due, the Notification of Compliance Status may be submitted in lieu of the Initial Notification provided it contains the information required under section (3).

(c) The owner or operator of a GDF who has already submitted a Notification of Compliance Status does not need to submit an additional Notification of Compliance Status to comply with this section (4) unless requested to do so, in writing, by DEQ.

(5) Notification of Performance Test. The owner or operator of a GDF must submit a Notification of Performance Test, as specified in 40 C.F.R. 63.9(e), at least 60 days prior to initiating testing required by OAR 340-244-0249.

(6) The owner or operator of a GDF must submit additional notifications specified in 40 C.F.R. 63.9, as applicable.

(7) The owner or operator of a GDF that has removed, capped, or otherwise decommissioned a Stage II vapor recovery system under OAR 340-244-0247(10) must notify DEQ in writing. The notification must comply with the following:

(a) The notification is due to DEQ 30 days after completing the decommissioning;

(b) The notification must include:

(A) Pressure test results report;

(B) The physical address of the GDF;

(C) The date the work started and the date the decommissioning was completed;

(D) The name of the company or service provider entity that conducted the decommissioning work, including a contact phone number and email address;

(E) The Enhanced Vapor Recovery system equipment checklist under OAR 340-244-0246(8) documenting the EVR components that were installed;

(F) For each requirement under OAR 340-244-0247(10)(a) through (n), the date the specific step was completed and a signature or initials of the individual who certified the step was completed; and

(G) A certification statement by a responsible official of truth, accuracy, and completeness. This certification must state that, based on information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the statements and information in the document are true, accurate, and complete.

[NOTE: This rule is included in the State of Oregon Clean Air Act Implementation Plan that EQC adopted under OAR 340-200-0040 only for affected sources in the Portland-Vancouver, Medford-Ashland, and Salem-Keizer Area Transportation Study air quality management areas and all of Clackamas, Multnomah, and Washington counties.]

[NOTE: This rule was renumbered from 340-244-0250 and combined with language from 340-244-0246 ‘notifications’.]

[ED. NOTE: Tables referenced are available from the agency.]

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020, ORS 468A.025 & 468A.050
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.025 & 468A.050
History:
DEQ 4-2024, adopt filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024

340-244-0252
Emission Standards for Gasoline Dispensing Facilities: General Provision Applicability

Table 3 to 40 CFR part 63 subpart CCCCCC shows which parts of the General Provisions apply to the owner or operator.

[ED. NOTE: Tables referenced are available from the agency.]

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020 & 468A.025
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.025
History:
DEQ 4-2024, amend filed 03/25/2024, effective 03/25/2024
DEQ 15-2008, f. & cert. ef 12-31-08