Department of Environmental Quality
Chapter 340
Division 246
OREGON STATE TOXICS AIR CONTAMINANT PROGRAM
340-246-0010
Policy and Purpose

The purpose of Oregon's state Toxic Air Contaminant Program is to address threats to public health and the environment from toxic air pollutants that remain after implementing the state delegated technology-based strategies of the federal Hazardous Air Pollutants Program in OAR 340-244-0010 through 340-244-0252, Cleaner Air Oregon in OAR 340-245-0005 through 340-245-8050, and OAR 340-244-9000 through 340-244-9090. It also addresses cases of elevated health risks from toxic air contaminant emissions at stationary sources and source categories of toxic air contaminant emissions. In the future, it is also intended to address human exposures to toxic air contaminant emissions from stationary sources that are not addressed by other regulatory programs or the Geographic Program through a Safety Net Program. It is expected that the Safety Net Program will apply only rarely.

Statutory/Other Authority: 468A.015, ORS 468A.135, 468.020, 468.035 & 468A.025
Statutes/Other Implemented: 468A.010(1), ORS 468A.015, 468A.025, ORS 468A.135 & 468.035
History:
DEQ 18-2021, amend filed 11/17/2021, effective 11/17/2021
DEQ 197-2018, amend filed 11/16/2018, effective 11/16/2018
DEQ 187-2018, amend filed 05/14/2018, effective 05/14/2018
DEQ 15-2003, f. & cert. ef. 11-3-03

340-246-0030
Definitions

The definitions in OAR 340-200-0020, 340-218-0030, 340-244-0030, OAR 340-247-0020 and this rule apply to this division. If the same term is defined in this division and elsewhere, the definition in this division applies.

(1) "Ambient benchmark concentration" means the concentration of a toxic air contaminant in outdoor air that would result in an excess lifetime cancer risk level of one in a million (1 x 10-6) or a non-cancer hazard quotient of one and is numerically equivalent to the “Toxicity Reference Value” as defined under OAR 340 247-0020.

(2) "Geographic area" means an area identified by DEQ where toxic air contaminant concentrations are estimated or measured at levels that exceed ambient benchmark concentrations.

(3) "Hazard quotient" means the ratio of the potential exposure to a single toxic air contaminant to the reference concentration for that pollutant. If the hazard quotient is calculated to be less than or equal to 1, then no adverse health effects are expected as a result of exposure. If the hazard quotient is greater than 1, then adverse health effects are possible.

(4) "High priority geographic area" means an area identified by DEQ where toxic air contaminant concentrations are estimated or measured at levels that exceed ambient benchmark concentrations and pose excess cancer risk above ten in a million, or non-cancer risk above a hazard quotient of one with the potential for serious adverse health effects.

(5) "Public receptor" means any outdoor area where members of the public have unrestricted access, including but not limited to residences, institutions (e.g. schools, hospitals), industrial, commercial, or office buildings, parks, recreational areas, public lands, streets or sidewalks.

(6) "Reference concentration" means an estimate of a continuous exposure or a daily exposure to the human population (including sensitive populations) that is likely to be without an appreciable risk of adverse non-cancer effects during a lifetime. The reference concentration can be derived from various types of human or animal data, with uncertainty factors generally applied to reflect limitations of the data used.

(7) "Sensitive human populations" means humans with increased susceptibility to the adverse effects of toxic air contaminants, including humans in prenatal or postnatal periods of development.

(8) "Source" means:

(a) An activity conducted by a person at a point, area, on-road mobile, or off-road mobile operation that emits toxic air contaminants; or

(b) Any building, structure, facility, installation or combination thereof that emits or is capable of emitting air contaminants to the atmosphere, is located on one or more contiguous or adjacent properties and is owned or operated by the same person or by persons under common control. The term includes all pollutant emitting activities that belong to a single major industrial group (i.e., that have the same two-digit code) as described in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, (U.S. Office of Management and Budget, 1987) or that support the major industrial group.

(9) "Source Category" means:

(a) A source or group of sources that emit toxic air contaminants due to the use of the same or similar processes, including commercial, residential, public or private processes, which as a group can reduce toxic air contaminant emissions by employing similar control or prevention strategies or;

(b) All the pollutant emitting activities that belong to the same industrial grouping (i.e., that have the same two-digit code) as described in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, (U.S. Office of Management and Budget, 1987).

[Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.]

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020, 468.035, 468A.010(1), 468A.015, 468A.025 & 468A.135
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468.035, 468A.010(1), 468A.015, 468A.025 & 468A.135
History:
DEQ 18-2021, amend filed 11/17/2021, effective 11/17/2021
DEQ 187-2018, amend filed 05/14/2018, effective 05/14/2018
DEQ 15-2003, f. & cert. ef. 11-3-03

340-246-0050
Pollution Prevention

The Environmental Quality Commission encourages the use of pollution prevention for all sources of toxic air contaminants statewide. The Commission encourages use of the following hierarchy to reduce toxic air contaminants:

(1) Modify the process, raw materials, or product to reduce the quantity and toxicity of air contaminants generated;

(2) Capture and reuse air contaminants;

(3) Treat to reduce the quantity and toxicity of air contaminants released; or

(4) Otherwise control toxic air contaminant emissions.

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.035, 468A.010(1), 468A.015, 468A.135, 468A.025 & 468.020
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468.035, 468A.010(1), 468A.015, 468A.135 & 468A.025
History:
DEQ 18-2021, amend filed 11/17/2021, effective 11/17/2021
DEQ 187-2018, amend filed 05/14/2018, effective 05/14/2018
DEQ 15-2003, f. & cert. ef. 11-3-03

340-246-0090
Ambient Benchmark Concentrations for Toxic Air Contaminants

Purpose. Ambient benchmark concentrations are concentrations of toxic air contaminants that serve as goals in the Oregon Toxic Air Contaminants Program. They are based on human health risk and hazard levels considering sensitive populations. Ambient benchmark concentrations are not regulatory standards, but reference values by which toxic air contaminant problems can be identified, addressed and evaluated and are numerically equivalent to the “Toxicity Reference Value” as defined under OAR 340 247-0020. DEQ will use ambient benchmark concentrations as indicated in these rules, to implement the Geographic and Source Category Programs. Ambient benchmark concentrations set by the procedures described in this rule apply throughout Oregon, including that area within the jurisdiction of the Lane Regional Air Protection Agency.

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.035, 468A.010(1), 468A.015, 468A.135, 468A.025 & 468.020
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468.035, 468A.010(1), 468A.015, 468A.135 & 468A.025
History:
DEQ 18-2021, amend filed 11/17/2021, effective 11/17/2021
DEQ 197-2018, amend filed 11/16/2018, effective 11/16/2018
DEQ 187-2018, amend filed 05/14/2018, effective 05/14/2018
DEQ 151-2018, minor correction filed 04/12/2018, effective 04/12/2018
DEQ 11-2010, f. & cert. ef. 10-19-10
DEQ 9-2010, f. & cert. ef. 8-31-10
DEQ 12-2006, f. & cert. ef. 8-15-06
DEQ 15-2003, f. & cert. ef. 11-3-03

340-246-0110
Source Category Rules and Strategies

(1) DEQ may identify the need for source category rules and strategies through the following methods:

(a) The emissions inventory, modeling or monitoring, shows toxic air contaminant emissions from point, area, or mobile sources associated with public health risk at public receptors;

(b) Development of a local toxic air contaminant reduction plan provides source category controls that could be effectively applied to sources existing in other parts of the state; or

(2) Subject to the requirements in this rule, the Lane Regional Air Pollution Authority is designated by the Commission as the agency responsible for implementing Source Category Rules and Strategies within its area of jurisdiction. The requirements and procedures contained in this rule must be used by the Regional Authority to implement Source Category Rules and Strategies unless the Regional Authority adopts superseding rules that are at least as restrictive as the rules adopted by the Commission.

(3) DEQ will consider the following criteria in determining whether to propose source category strategies under this division:

(a) Whether toxic air contaminant emissions from the source category are not, or will not, be addressed by other regulations or strategies, including emissions reduction requirements under the Geographic Program (OAR 340-246-0130 through 340-246-0170);

(b) Whether toxic air contaminant emissions from the source category can be effectively reduced through regulations or voluntary strategies; and

(c) Whether the source category contributes to ambient benchmark concentration exceedances at public receptors statewide, in multiple geographic areas, or in multiple counties.

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.035, 468A.010(1), 468A.015, 468A.135, 468A.025 & 468.020
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468.035, 468A.010(1), 468A.015, 468A.135 & 468A.025
History:
DEQ 18-2021, amend filed 11/17/2021, effective 11/17/2021
DEQ 187-2018, amend filed 05/14/2018, effective 05/14/2018
DEQ 15-2003, f. & cert. ef. 11-3-03

340-246-0130
Geographic Program (0130 through 0170)

(1) Purpose. The Geographic Program addresses emissions from multiple sources of toxic air contaminants. It requires prioritizing and selecting geographic areas of concern, forming a local advisory committee, developing a specific local plan to control toxic air contaminants, a public participation and comment process, EQC adoption or approval, implementing reduction strategies, and periodically evaluating the effectiveness by DEQ.

(2) Subject to the requirements in OAR 340-246-0130 through 0170, the Lane Regional Air Pollution Authority is designated by the Commission as the agency to implement the Geographic Program within its area of jurisdiction. The requirements and procedures contained in this rule must be used by the Regional Authority to implement the Geographic Program unless the Regional Authority adopts superseding rules which are at least as restrictive as state rules. The Regional Authority will address geographic areas as resources allow, considering the prioritization criteria in 340-246-0150.

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.035, 468A.010(1), 468A.015, 468A.135, 468A.025 & ORS 468.020
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468.035, 468A.010(1), 468A.015, 468A.135 & 468A.025
History:
DEQ 18-2021, amend filed 11/17/2021, effective 11/17/2021
DEQ 187-2018, amend filed 05/14/2018, effective 05/14/2018
DEQ 15-2003, f. & cert. ef. 11-3-03

340-246-0150
Prioritizing and Selecting Geographic Areas

(1) DEQ will prioritize geographic areas by considering the total cancer and non-cancer risk from toxic air contaminants to the population in the area, as indicated by:

(a) The number and degree of ambient benchmark concentration exceedances;

(b) The toxicity or potency of toxic air contaminants exceeding ambient benchmark concentrations;

(c) The level of exposure and number of people at risk in areas of concern;

(d) The presence of sensitive populations;

(e) The effectiveness of local control strategies; and

(f) To the extent known, the risk posed by multiple pollutants and pollutant mixtures.

(2) Not later than 18 months after the first set of benchmarks is adopted, DEQ will select the first geographic area for toxic air contaminants reduction planning. DEQ will base selection on representative monitoring compared to the ambient benchmark concentrations at public receptors. To the extent possible, geographic areas will be identified using monitoring data generated following EPA monitoring guidelines. Subsequent geographic areas will be selected after completion of monitoring. A geographic area is formally selected upon publication of a notice in the Oregon Secretary of State's Bulletin. Once an area is selected for toxic air contaminants reduction planning, it will retain the status of a selected geographic area until DEQ determines through an evaluation of data that a reduction plan is no longer necessary for the area to meet all toxic air contaminant ambient benchmark concentrations.

(3) DEQ will first select for emissions reduction planning the high priority geographic areas, where concentrations of toxic air contaminants are more than ten times above the ambient benchmark concentrations or above a hazard quotient of one with the potential for serious adverse health effects. DEQ will select all other geographic areas, where toxic air contaminant concentrations are above benchmarks, after toxic air contaminant emissions reduction plans have been approved for the high priority geographic areas.

(4) Geographic Area Boundaries. DEQ will establish general geographic area boundaries on a neighborhood or urban area scale. DEQ will consider feasibility of administration when setting the boundaries of a geographic area. In setting geographic area boundaries, DEQ will consider criteria including but not limited to the following:

(a) Areas of impact (where people are exposed);

(b) Population density;

(c) Areas of influence (where sources are located);

(d) Meteorology;

(e) Geography and topography;

(f) Including all toxic air contaminants exceeding ambient benchmark concentrations; and

(g) Coordination with criteria pollutant boundaries for attainment of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS).

[NOTE: Publications referenced are available from the agency.]

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.035, 468A.010(1), 468A.015, ORS 468.020, 468A.025 & 468A.135
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468.035, 468A.010(1), 468A.015, 468A.025 & 468A.135
History:
DEQ 18-2021, amend filed 11/17/2021, effective 11/17/2021
DEQ 13-2019, amend filed 05/16/2019, effective 05/16/2019
DEQ 187-2018, amend filed 05/14/2018, effective 05/14/2018
DEQ 15-2003, f. & cert. ef. 11-3-03

340-246-0170
Local Toxic Air Contaminant Emissions Reduction Planning

(1)(a) DEQ will develop toxic air contaminant reduction plans for selected geographic areas with the advice of local advisory committees. The main role of a local advisory committee is to consider toxic air contaminant reduction options and to recommend a specific toxic air contaminant reduction plan for their geographic area. The Director will appoint a local toxic air contaminants advisory committee.

(b) Local advisory committees will generally be composed of a balanced representation of members from affected local government, local health departments, the public, small businesses (50 or fewer employees), larger businesses (if present in the area), and interest groups represented in the area.

(2) Local Advisory Committee Tasks.

(a) Within 18 months of their first meeting, the committee will evaluate options for reducing emissions of toxic air contaminants that exceed ambient benchmark concentrations, and recommend a local toxic air contaminant reduction plan to DEQ.

(b) DEQ may grant an extension of time to the local committee if requested by the committee, if DEQ believes the extension is technically justified and the committee is making reasonable progress in developing a local toxic air contaminant reduction plan.

(c) If the committee is unable to recommend a local toxic air contaminant reduction plan to DEQ within 18 months, or the date of an extension, DEQ will formulate a plan for the area within six months.

(d) DEQ and the local advisory committee will seek local government support for the proposed local toxic air contaminant emissions reduction plan.

(e) The local advisory committee will evaluate the plan's effectiveness as it is implemented and recommend changes to DEQ.

(f) At DEQ's request, the local advisory committee will reconvene to implement contingency planning and recommend contingency measures as specified by OAR 340-246-0170(4)(l).

(g) If the committee is unable to recommend contingency measures within 18 months, DEQ will formulate contingency measures for the area within 6 months.

(3) Public Notice, Comment, Approval and Adoption by the Environmental Quality Commission. DEQ will provide an opportunity for public notice and comment on proposed local emissions reduction plans. After the public notice and comment process is complete, DEQ will present local toxic air contaminant reduction plans to the Commission for approval, including adoption of appropriate administrative rules. The Environmental Quality Commission may delegate the approval of plans that do not contain administrative rules to the Director of DEQ.

(4) Elements of a Toxic Air Contaminant Reduction Plan:

(a) Local toxic air contaminant reduction plans must focus on the toxic air contaminant or toxic air contaminants measured or modeled above the ambient benchmark concentrations.

(b) Local toxic air contaminant reduction plans must be based on sound data analysis. This includes developing enhanced emissions inventory information for the local area using source-specific information to the extent possible. This may also include enhanced modeling and monitoring to better characterize ambient concentrations. Plans also must rely on sound analysis of the effectiveness and cost of toxic air contaminant emissions reduction options. Where needed to fill specific information gaps, DEQ may require toxic air contaminant emissions reporting for specific sources or source categories within the geographic area on a case-by-case basis.

(c) The emissions reduction goals for individual toxic air contaminants are ambient benchmark concentrations in local toxic air contaminant reduction plans.

(d) Local toxic air contaminant reduction plans must be designed to reduce toxic air contaminant emissions in a timely manner.

(A) When feasible, local toxic air contaminant reduction plans will be designed to reach levels that are equal to or below ambient benchmark concentrations. Plans will be designed to achieve emissions reductions within ten years, beginning at the date the Commission approves the plan. Local plans must provide for the timeliest reductions possible for each toxic air contaminant exceeding ambient benchmark concentrations.

(B) Local toxic air contaminant reduction plans must include specific three-year milestones that DEQ and the local advisory committee will evaluate every three years, in coordination with DEQ's toxic air contaminant emissions inventory update.

(e) Every three years, DEQ will assess the effectiveness of local plans and make recommendations for plan revision based on progress meeting milestones or new information. If DEQ finds lack of progress at year three, it will work with the local advisory committee to provide corrective measures. If DEQ finds lack of progress at year six and projects that ten-year goals in OAR 340-246-0170(4)(d)(A) will not be met, it will implement the contingency plan in 340-246-0170(4)(l). If at year nine DEQ projects that ten year goals in 340-246-0170(4)(d)(A) will not be met, it will work with the local advisory committee to propose and seek adoption of measures necessary to reach these goals.

(f) Local toxic air contaminant reduction plans must evaluate toxic air contaminant emissions from all types of sources, including point, area, and mobile sources. Plans must require emissions reductions from the most significant sources of toxic air contaminants. Mandatory emissions reduction strategies will be commensurate with source contributions, considering relative emissions, toxicity, technical feasibility, cost-effectiveness and equity.

(g) Local toxic air contaminant reduction plans must include strategies to reduce high concentrations of toxic air contaminants that are limited to smaller portions of a geographic area as well as pollutants causing public health risk throughout the area.

(h) Local toxic air contaminant reduction plans may include a variety of mandatory and voluntary approaches to reducing emissions of toxic air contaminants. Depending on the type of source, local toxic air contaminant reduction plans may include public education, pollution prevention alternatives, economic incentives and disincentives, technical assistance and regulatory requirements.

(i) DEQ will ensure the opportunity for public involvement during the plan development process. This includes involving those affected by the toxic air contaminant emissions and those affected by the proposals to reduce toxic air contaminant emissions. Proposed local toxic air contaminant reduction plans must be available for public hearing and comment.

(j) Local toxic air contaminant reduction plans must be coordinated with other local, state, and federal requirements to the extent possible. This includes considerations of any ozone or particulate control requirements for the area, any federal standard applicable to sources in the area, any strategies that are federally pre-empted, and any impacts on water or land, such as water pollution or hazardous waste.

(k) Local toxic air contaminant reduction plans will include specific recommendations for developing ongoing emissions inventory or ambient air monitoring to track local trends in toxic air contaminants.

(l) Local toxic air contaminant reduction plans must include a contingency plan that will be implemented if evaluation at year six shows that an area is not meeting milestones and will not achieve the ten year goals established under OAR 340-246-0170(4)(d)(A). The contingency plan, like the original plan, must require emissions reductions from the most significant sources of toxic air contaminants. Mandatory emissions reduction strategies will be commensurate with source contributions, considering relative emissions, toxicity, technical feasibility cost-effectiveness and equity. Contingency plans must include but are not limited to:

(A) Re-evaluation of planning assumptions, such as emissions factors, motor vehicle data and background pollutants;

(B) Evaluation of existing conditions and effectiveness of emissions reduction strategies, including reasons for success or failure; and

(C) New or progressively more mandatory strategies that will be considered.

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.035, 468A.010(1), 468A.015, ORS 468.020, 468A.025 & 468A.135
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468.035, 468A.010(1), 468A.015, 468A.025 & 468A.135
History:
DEQ 18-2021, amend filed 11/17/2021, effective 11/17/2021
DEQ 187-2018, amend filed 05/14/2018, effective 05/14/2018
DEQ 152-2018, minor correction filed 04/12/2018, effective 04/12/2018
DEQ 15-2003, f. & cert. ef. 11-3-03

340-246-0190
Air Toxics Safety Net Program (0190 through 0230)

Reserved for Safety Net Program.

 

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.035, 468A.010(1) & 468A.015
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.015 & 468A.025
History:
DEQ 18-2021, amend filed 11/17/2021, effective 11/17/2021
DEQ 197-2018, amend filed 11/16/2018, effective 11/16/2018
DEQ 187-2018, amend filed 05/14/2018, effective 05/14/2018
DEQ 15-2003, f. & cert. ef. 11-3-03

340-246-0210
Air Toxics Safety Net Program (0190 through 0230)

Reserved for Safety Net Program.

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.035, 468A.010(1) & 468A.015
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.015 & 468A.025
History:
DEQ 18-2021, amend filed 11/17/2021, effective 11/17/2021
DEQ 187-2018, amend filed 05/14/2018, effective 05/14/2018
DEQ 15-2003, f. & cert. ef. 11-3-03

340-246-0230
Air Toxics Safety Net Program (0190 through 0230)

Reserved for Safety Net Program.

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 468.020, 468A. 025, 468A.040 & 468A.310
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 468A.025, 468A.040 & 468A.310
History:
DEQ 18-2021, amend filed 11/17/2021, effective 11/17/2021
DEQ 153-2018, minor correction filed 04/12/2018, effective 04/12/2018
DEQ 7-2015, f. & cert. ef. 4-16-15
DEQ 5-2011, f. 4-29-11, cert. ef. 5-1-11
DEQ 15-2003, f. & cert. ef. 11-3-03